the most popular qac algorithm is to suggest completions according to their past popularity. richardson et al attempted to model the true relevance of documents by imposing a multiplicative factor. the main objective of qac is to predict users intended queries and assist them formulate a query while typing. generally, a popularity score is assigned to each query based on the frequency of the query in the query log from which the query database was built. this simple qac algorithm is called mostpopularcompletion, which can be regarded as an approximate maximum likelihood estimator. several qac methods were proposed to extend mpc from various aspects. bar yossef and kraus introduced the context sensitive qac method by treating users recent queries as context and taking into account the similarity of qac candidates with this context for ranking. but there is no consensus of how to optimally train the relevance model. shokouhi em ployed learning based strategy to incorporate several global and personal features into the qac model. however, these methods only exploit the nal submitted query or simulate the pre xes of the clicked query, which do not investigate the users interactions with the qac engine. in addition the above models, there are several studies addressing different aspects of qac. for example, focused on the time sensitive aspect of qac. other methods studied the space ef ciency of index for qac. duan and hsu addressed the problem of suggesting query completions when the pre. kharitonov et al proposed two new metrics for of ine qac evaluation, and investigated user reformation behavior for qac. the qac is a complex process where a user goes through a series of interactions with the qac engine before clicking on a suggestion. as can be seen from the related work, little attention has been paid to understand the interactions with the qac engine. until recently, li et al created a two dimensional click model to combine users behaviors with the existing learning based qac model. the study assumed users behaviors at different keystrokes, even for the consecutive two keystrokes, are independent in order to simplify the model estimation, which results in information lose. in this paper, we attempt to directly model and leverage the relationship between users behaviors, so as to improve the performance of qac. in the eld of document retrieval, the main purpose for modeling users clicks is to infer the intrinsic relevance between the query and document by explaining the positional bias. the position bias assumption was rst introduced by granka et al, stating that a document on higher rank tends to attract more clicks. later examination hypothesis is formalized in, with a key assumption that a user will click on a document if and only if that document has been examined and it is relevant to the query. in addition, several extensions were proposed, such as the user browsing model, the bayesian browsing model, the general click model and the dynamic bayesian network model. despite the abundance of click models, these existing click models cannot be directly applied to qac without considerable modi cation. the click model most similar to our work is, which models users clicks on a series of queries in a session. however, because of the main difference between qac and document retrieval, our model is very different from.