muliple nocs: there are number of commercial and academic chips that leverage multiple nocs. tileraimesh architecture used ve parallel nocs for different class of traf,e, cache coherence messages, memory controller access, io port access, anduser space message passing. therefore the reason forusing multiple nocs in trips and tilera imesh architecture is toprovide isolation between different classes of traf c. balfour anddally showed that adding parallel nocs can potentially reducethe network latency and improves the bandwidth. in contrast, in performance mode for sue rnet, we divide the traf. in addition to the performance improvement, su pe rnecan also be used to provide reliability or energyef ciency by using the same set of nocs. system level power saving techniques: over the years various system level power management techniques have been introduced. dvfs for on chip networks has been proposed at variousgranularities such as link level, router level and region level. however the advantage of dvfs schemehas been reducing due to nochigh leakage power in smallernodes and diminishing room for reducing supply voltages. toimprove the ef ciency of dvfs schemes, bokhari et al proposed integrating multiple nocs, where each noc is optimized using multi vt circuit technique. at runtime, along with changing vflevels, a different noc is activated. we use a similar techniquefor our energy ef cient modes. however we also use these multiple nocs for improving performance and reliability of the system das et al proposed integrating four architecturally homogenous nocs for the purpose of energy ef ciency. fault tolerance in noc: many researchers have studied the topic of soft error detection and correction for nocs. this leads to temporary glitches in noc routerdata pathand or control path. bulletproof router use cyclic redundancy check for detection and correction of soft errors indata path and selective triple modular redundancy for detecting faults in control paths of the routers. prodromou et al proposed a scheme based on hardware invariance checking to detectfaults in router control path. in case of errorswhich were not correctable, its are retransmitted from downstream routers. commercial noc vendor, arteris, has also introduced an error resilience solution called flexnoc resilience package that combines end to end error data correction and port checking murali et al analyzed different error detection and correctionschemes and concluded that end to end fault detection correctionand retransmission based on time out is a good tradeoff betweenperformance and energy and or area overhead. none of the techniques discussed above studied the soft error resilience in contextof reusing the existing multiple nocs. in contrast to previous solutions, we use the additional noc to transmit strong byte basedsecded code for end to end error detection and correction, and use the control path of the two nocs for lock step dual modulo redundancy protection in the control path. trips architecture use multiplenetworks for operand and data forwarding. did not address the issue of reliability and performance intheir architecture. mishra et al extended the idea by using two heterogeneous network, where onenetwork is used for bandwidth sensitive applications and the second network is used for latency sensitive applications. depending on network traf, a subset of these noc are activated at runtime while unused noc are power gated. the soft errors are caused by random logic ip on input output of a logic gate. park et al explored the use of hopby hop error detection and correction by using single error correction double error detection codes.