this paper presents a simple and intuitive method for mining search engine query logs to get fast query recommendations on a large scale industrial strength search engine. in order to get a more comprehensive solution, we combine two methods together. on the one hand, we study and model search engine users sequential search behavior, and interpret this consecutive search behavior as client side query refinement, that should form the basis for the search engine own query refinement process. on the other hand, we combine this method with a traditional content based similarity method to compensate for the high sparsity of real query log data, and more specifically, the shortness of most query sessions. to evaluate our method, we use one hundred day worth query logs from sina search engine to do off line mining. then we analyze three independent editors evaluations on a query test set. based on their judgement, our method was found to be effective for finding related queries, despite its simplicity. in addition to the subjective editors rating, we also perform tests based on actual anonymous user search sessions. providing related queries for search engine users can help them quickly nd the desired content. recently, some search engines started showing related search keywords in the bottom of the result page. their main purpose is to give search engine users a comprehensive recommendation when they search using a speci. recommending the most relevant search keywords set to users not only enhances the search enginehit rate, but also helps the user to nd the desired information more quickly. also, for some users who are not very familiar with a certain domain, we can use the queries that are used by previous similar searchers who may part of this work was done while the rst author was at search engined group, sina corporation, beijing, china have gradually re ned their query, hence turning into expert searchers, to help guide these novices in their search. that is, we can get query recommendations by mining the search engine query logs, which contain abundant information on past queries. search engine query log mining is a special type of web usage mining. in, a content ignorant approach and a graph based iterative clustering method was used to cluster both the urls and queries. later in, the authors presented a well rounded solution for query log clustering by combining content based clustering techniques and cross reference based clustering techniques. in, methods to get query recommendation by utilizing the click through data were presented. we study the problem of anticipating user search needs, based on their browsing activity. given the current web pagethat a user is visiting we want to recommend a small and diverse set of search queries that are relevant to the content of, but also non obvious and serendipitous. we introduce a novel method that is based on the content of the page visited, rather than on past browsing patterns as in previous literature. our content based approach can be used even for previously unseen pages. we represent the topics of a page by the set of wikipedia entities extracted from it. to obtain useful query suggestions for these entities, we exploit a novel graph model that we call eqgraph, containing entities, queries, and transitions between entities, between queries, as well as from entities to queries. we perform personalized pagerank computation on such a graph to expand the set of entities extracted from a page into a richer set of entities, and to associate these entities with relevant query suggestions. we develop an efficient implementation to deal with large graph instances and suggest queries from a large and diverse pool. we perform a user study that shows that our method produces relevant and interesting recommendations, and outperforms an alternative method based on reverse ir. exploring the web is often a serendipitous experience, where users with no pre existing search ob jective meander from topic to topic, sometimes discovering unexpected, sur this work was done while the author was at yahoo research barcelona. permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. figure #: example of a suggestion produced by our method in our experiments: when reading the wikipedia page about machu picchu, a pre columbian inca site in peru, we suggest to the user a query about rafting the urubamba, the river that ows in the valley where machu picchu is located. such serendipitous search encounters can be extremely enriching for the users, as they may stimulate their thinking to arrive to particular creative insights. in this scenario, it is interesting to analyze the class of web search queries that are triggered by the content of a previously read web page. for example, while reading a news article about the year# presidential election results in france, the user might want to read more about the new president and his nancial policies, thus issuing a query such as francois hollande nancial policies. figure # shows a real example from our experiments. in this paper we tackle the problem of anticipating such newly created information needs. more concretely, given the current web pagethat a user is visiting we want to recommend a small and diverse set of search queries that are relevant to the content of, non obvious and serendipitous. observe that this problem is not just a web search problem in reverse, as we are not trying to identify queries that would lead to the pagebeing ranked highly in the result list. such queries are mostly obvious given the content of the page, and this is not desirable for our application. our goal is to identify queries that stem from the page, rather than queries that lead to the page. the problem of understanding users intent and supporting them in the formulation of web search queries has been studied extensively over the last years. however, the standard problem studied is that of recommending new related queries that re ne a given search query. in other terms, in the traditional context it is assumed that the user has already explicitly given an indication concerning her intent through a web search query. in this perspective the provided recommendations are passive, in the sense that they only come after a user has submitted one or more queries to a search engine. the reasons behind these queries and what triggered the information need are not taken into account. instead, in the scenario we consider in this paper, the user does not need to formulate a query that represents explicitly an information need. the idea is that the user is picked up at an earlier stage during the search process, when she is reading a web page and, potentially, she has not even yet conceived the thought of issuing a web search query at all. the motivation for considering such a scenario is that many information needs of web users are actually triggered by what they browse. this particularly holds for informative pages, such as news and blogs: whenever a user nds something interesting or unclear while reading a page, she might want to go deeper in the matter and, to obtain further information, she might formulate a query. a recent work by cheng et al has proposed to exploit data gathered from search logs and browsing logs to actively predict users query intent based on the web pages they browse. the model proposed by cheng et al is based on the frequent patterns of transitions. the basic idea is that of exploiting the wisdom of the crowd: if after visiting a particular page, many users continue with the same query then the original page is likely to trigger the query. one main limitation of this approach is that, being based on frequent patterns, it is more. ective for popular pages that have been seen many times by many di erent users, while it is inherently inapplicable to previously unseen pages. unfortunately, as discussed above, the kind of pages that are more likely to be an interesting playground for these recommendations are informative pages which are very dynamical in nature and usually have a short life: from few hours to few days. therefore it is important to develop methods for recommending queries even for new pages. in this paper we tackle such a goal, by focusing on the content of pages. in particular, given any web page, we build a succinct representation of its subject matter by extracting the main concepts described or discussed in it, in the form of wikipedia entities. with the aim of obtaining relevant and interesting query recommendations for the entities contained in a page, we devise a novel graph model, which we call eqgraph. our model extends the well known query flow graph. it consists of two distinct sets of nodes, namely wikipedia entity nodes and query nodes, and three di erent sets of arcs: entity entity, query query, and entity query. the query query connections are akin to their counterpart in the query flow graph: the presence of a directed arc between two query nodes indicates a su ciently high likelihood of submitting the second query after having issued the rst one. in the eqgraph each entity is connected to all the queries that contain it. finally, the entity entity transitions are equivalent to query ow transitions at the conceptual level of entities. we draw a directed arc between two entities if a user who issued a query related to the rst entity is likely to search for the second entity. we derive these entity entity transitions from the query ow transitions by aggregating transitions that are related to the same entities. we leverage the eqgraph to recommend interesting queries for web pages. we start from the seed set of entities contained in the page. to ensure that the seed set contains a su ciently large number of concepts, we expand the initial set of entities by performing personalized pagerank computations in the subgraph of the eqgraph induced by all the entity nodes. in the eqgraph, the entities of interest for a page are connected to the queries that contain them. however, we do not build our nal query recommendations for the page by simply looking at these queries. instead we perform a personalized pagerank computation for the expanded set of entities in the full eqgraph. we could use a textual representation of the entities to provide synthetically generated queries. however, we decide to employ real queries to leverage the wisdom of the crowd. the eqgraph naturally captures this intuition: if two entities are related, there will likely be a query that is pointed by both entities. for our experiments, we have built an instance of the graph containing several hundreds of millions nodes and arcs. running personalized pagerank computations on such a large graph is potentially a serious performance bottleneck of our query recommendation method. cient and scalable manner, we develop a giraph implementation of the personalized pagerank algorithm. giraph is a hadoopbased framework for running graph algorithms on large scale data in parallel by distributing the load on a large number of computers. it is based on the bulk synchronous parallel model of computation. we test our method on a large eqgraph extracted from a recent sample of a yahoo query log. we produce query recommendations for a set of pages sampled from wikipedia, yahoo news and yahoo finance. we evaluate the quality of the produced recommendations by performing a user study, and nd that our method produces relevant and non obvious suggestions. the main contributions of this paper are the following: we introduce the eqgraph as a novel object. this object enriches the standard query flow graph with entity nodes. we describe this graph in detail as it has interesting properties in its own right and could be applied to other problems. we present a novel method for anticipating information needs that arise from the content of pages that people are browsing. our method is based on personalized pagerank computation over the eqgraph. we use wikipedia entities to represent the information items contained in web pages. by leveraging entities, our model is able to generate query recommendations for previously unseen pages. we develop a giraph implementation of the personalized pagerank algorithm, which could be useful for many other applications. we perform a user study that shows that our recommendations are relevant for the content of the page, and that our method based on the eqgraph outperforms an alternative baseline based on reverse ir. the rest of this paper is organized as follows. section # introduces the basic concepts for the eqgraph, which is then http: giraph apache org presented in section #. section # describes how we extract entities from pages and queries, how we expand the initial set of entities extracted from a page, and how we produce the suggestions. in section # we assess the quality of the recommendations produced by our method via a user study. section # reviews related literature and section # concludes. queries that are pointed by multiple entities are more likely to be interesting because they are at the intersection of different topics in a page. cient implementation that can deal with very large graphs. in this paper, we propose a novel context aware query suggestion approach which is in two steps. in the offine model learning step, to address data sparseness, queries are summarized into concepts by clustering a click through bipartite. then, from session data a concept sequence suffix tree is constructed as the query suggestion model. query suggestion plays an important role in improving the usability of search engines. although some recently proposed methods can make meaningful query suggestions by mining query patterns from search logs, none of them are context aware they do not take into account the immediately preceding queries as context in query suggestion. in the online query suggestion step, a user search context is captured by mapping the query sequence submitted by the user to a sequence of concepts. by looking up the context in the concept sequence sufix tree, our approach suggests queries to the user in a context aware manner. we test our approach on a large scale search log of a commercial search engine containing billion search queries, billion clicks, and million query sessions. the experimental results clearly show that our approach outperforms two baseline methods in both coverage and quality of suggestions. ectiveness of information retrieval from the web largely depends on whether users can issue queries to search engines, which properly describe their information needs. writing queries is never easy, because usually queries are short and words are ambiguous. therefore, there is no standard or optimal way to issue queries to search engines, and it is well recognized that query formulation is a bottleneck issue in the usability of search engines. that is, by guessing a usersearch intent, a search engine suggests queries which may better re ect the userinformation need. it is hard to determine the usersearch intent, ie, whether the user is interested in the history of gladiator, famous gladiators, or the lm gladiator. moreover, the user is probably searching the lms played by russell crowe. in this paper, we propose a novel context aware query suggestion approach by mining click through data and session data. first, instead of mining patterns of individual queries which may be sparse, we summarize queries into concepts. to tackle these challenges, we develop a novel, highly scalable yet. we develop a novel structure of concept sequence su. third, we empirically study a large scale search log containing billion search queries, billion clicks, and million query sessions. we explore several interesting properties of the click through bipartite and illustrate several important statistics of the session data. the clustering algorithm and the query suggestion method are described in sections and, respectively. to make the problem even more complicated, di erent search engines may respond di erently to the same query. recently, most commercial search engines such as google, yahoo, live search, ask, and baidu provide query suggestions to improve usability. a commonly used query suggestion method is to nd similar queries in search logs and use those queries as suggestions for each other. another approach mines pairs of queries which are adjacent or co occur in the same query sessions. although the existing methods may suggest good queries in some cases, none of them are context aware they do not take into account the immediately preceding queries as context in query suggestion. without looking at the context of search, the existing methods often suggest many queries for various possible intents, and thus may have a low accuracy in query suggestion. if we nd that the user submits a query beautiful mind before gladiator, it is very likely that the user is interested in the lm gladiator. the query context which consists of the recent queries issued by the user can help to better understand the usersearch intent and enable us to make more meaningful suggestions. a concept is a group of similar queries. although mining concepts of queries can be reduced to a clustering problem on a bipartite graph, the very large data size and the curse of dimensionality pose great challenges. we may have millions of unique queries involving millions of unique urls, which may result in hundreds of thousands of concepts. second, there are often a huge number of patterns that can be used for query suggestion. how to mine those patterns and organize them properly for fast query suggestion is far from trivial. the data set in this study is several magnitudes larger than those reported in previous work. last, we test our query suggestion approach on the search log. the experimental results clearly show that our approach outperforms two baseline methods in both coverage and quality of suggestions. the rest of the paper is organized as follows. we rst present the framework of our approach in section # and review the related work in section #. we report an empirical study in section #. this paper is concerned with actively predicting search intent from user browsing behavior data. in recent years, great attention has been paid to predicting user search intent. however, the prediction was mostly passive because it was performed only after users submitted their queries to search engines. it is not considered why users issued these queries, and what triggered their information needs. according to our study, many information needs of users were actually triggered by what they have browsed. that is, after reading a page, if a user found something interesting or unclear, he she might have the intent to obtain further information and accordingly formulate a search query. actively predicting such search intent can benefit both search engines and their users. in this paper, we propose a series of technologies to fulfill this task. first, we extract all the queries that users issued after reading a given page from user browsing behavior data. second, we learn a model to effectively rank these queries according to their likelihoods of being triggered by the page. third, since search intents can be quite diverse even if triggered by the same page, we propose an optimization algorithm to diversify the ranked list of queries obtained in the second step, and then suggest the list to users. we have tested our approach on large scale user browsing behavior data obtained from a commercial search engine. the experimental results have shown that our approach can predict meaningful queries for a given page, and the search performance for these queries can be significantly improved by using the triggering page as contextual information. search engines can record which documents were clicked for which query, and use these query document pairs as soft relevance judgments. however, compared to the true judgments, click logs give noisy and sparse relevance information. we apply a markov random walk model to a large click log, producing a probabilistic ranking of documents for a given query. a key advantage of the model is its ability to retrieve relevant documents that have not yet been clicked for that query and rank those effectively. we conduct experiments on click logs from image search, comparing our random walk model to a different random walk, varying parameters such as walk length and self transition probability. the most effective combination is a long backward walk with high self transition probability. a search engine can track which of its search results were clicked for which query. for a popular system, these click records can amount to millions of query document pairs per day. each pair can be viewed as a weak indication of relevance: that the user decided to at least view the document, based on its description in the search results. although clicks are not real judgments, there is evidence that they are useful, for example as training data, as annotations, for query suggestion or directly as evidence for ranking. permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. we can use the clicks of past users to improve the current search results. however, the clicked set of documents is likely to di er from the current userrelevant set. other di erences are due to presentation issues; for example, the user must decide whether to click based on a short summary and is in uenced by the ordering of results. for any given search, a large number of documents are never seen by the user, therefore not clicked. from the perspective of a user conducting a search, documents that are clicked but not relevant constitute noise in the click data. documents that are relevant but not clicked constitute sparsity in the click data. one class of approaches attempts to reduce noise in click data, by building a click model that may use additional information about the userbehaviour. these approaches can signi cantly reduce noise, by identifying some clicked documents as irrelevant. this paper focuses on the sparsity problem, although our model also has noise reduction properties. the model gives a probabilistic ranking of documents, which includes relevant documents that have not yet been clicked for the current query. the sparsity problem is evidenced by power law distributions observed in click logs. most queries in the click log have a small number of clicked documents. in such cases, it is useful to identify additional relevant documents. we rst describe the click information as a graph, and survey a range of click graph applications. then we detail our markov random walk model for nding relevant documents. the subsequent sections describe a real click dataset, and empirical evaluation of the new methods. some differences arise because we are aggregating clicks across users, who may simply disagree about which documents are relevant. for example, taking into account the userbrowsing patterns after clicking a document. understanding goals and preferences behind a user online activities can greatly help information providers, such as search engine andcommerce web sites, to personalize contents and thus improve user satisfaction. understanding a user intention could also provide other business advantages to information providers. for example, information providers can decide whether to display commercial content based on user intent to purchase. previous work on web search defines three major types of user search goals for search queries: navigational, informational and transactional or resource. in this paper, we focus our attention on capturing commercial intention from search queries and web pages, ie, when a user submits the query or browse a web page, whether he she is about to commit or in the middle of a commercial activity, such as purchase, auction, selling, paid service, etc. we call the commercial intentions behind a user online activities as oci. we also propose the notion of commercial activity phase, which identifies in which phase a user is in his her commercial activities: research or commit. we present the framework of building machine learning models to learn oci based on any web page content. based on that framework, we build models to detect oci from search queries and web pages. we train machine learning models from two types of data sources for a given search query: content of algorithmic search result page and contents of top sites returned by a search engine. our experiments show that the model based on the first data source achieved better performance. we also discover that frequent queries are more likely to have commercial intention. finally we propose our future work in learning richer commercial intention behind users online activities. understanding how to leverage these entity annotations of text to improve ad hoc document retrieval is an open research area. in this paper, we propose a new technique, called entity query feature expansion which enriches the query with features from entities and their links to knowledge bases, including structured attributes and text. we evaluate our technique on trec text collections automatically annotated with knowledge base entity links, including the google freebase annotations data. we find that entity based feature expansion results in significant improvements in retrieval effectiveness over state of the art text expansion approaches. recent advances in automatic entity linking and knowledge base construction have resulted in entity annotations for document and query collections. for example, annotations of entities from large general purpose knowledge bases, such as freebase and the google knowledge graph. query expansion is a commonly used technique to improve retrieval effectiveness. most previous query expansion approaches focus on text, mainly using unigram concepts. we experiment using both explicit query entity annotations and latent entities. todaycommercial web search engines are increasingly incorporating entity data from structured knowledge bases into search results. google uses data from their knowledge graph and google plus, yahoo has web of objects, bing incorporates facebook and satori entities, and facebook searches over entities with graph search. however, the majority of content created on the web remains unstructured text in the form of web pages, blogs, and microblog posts. for many search tasks, these documents will continue to be the main permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author must be honored. in this work, we address the task of ad hoc document retrieval leveraging entity links to knowledge bases in order to improve the understanding and representation of text documents and queries. we demonstrate that this gain in semantic understanding results in signi cant improvements in retrieval effectiveness. the task of entity linking to a knowledge base has received signi cant attention, with one major venue being the text analysis conference knowledge base population entity linking task. in this task traditional named entities are linked to a knowledge base derived from wikipedia. beyond tac, there is increasing interest in more general concept entities, with the task of wikifying documents by linking them to wikipedia. beyond information extraction, content owners are augmenting html markup with embedded structured data through standardized markup efforts such as schema org. a study from year# showed that of web documents contain embedded structured data in rdfa or microformats. google recently released the facc dataset for the trec clueweb and clueweb web collections. the dataset contains automatically extracted entity mentions from web documents that are linkable to the freebase knowledge base. freebase is a publicly available general purpose knowledge base with over million entities and over billion facts the facc dataset is the rst publicly available web scale collection of entity linked documents. in addition to annotated documents, the facc data also contains explicit manual annotations for the trec web track queries. we present one of the rst published experiments using this data for retrieval. for this work, we de ne an entity broadly to be a thing or concept that exists in the world or ction, such as a person, a battle,lm, or a color. we focus primarily on entities that are linked to two existing publicly available knowledge bases, wikipedia and freebase. we use a combination of both of these knowledge bases because they provide complementary information. freebase provides a signi cantly larger database of concepts, many of whom may not meet wikipediastandards for notability, with structured data in rdf, including categories and types. our work addresses two fundamental research areas using entity annotations for ad hoc retrieval. the rst is the representation of both queries and documents with linked entities. what features, if any, improve retrieval effectiveness the second is inferring latent as of january, year# according to freebase com entities for an information need. the facc annotations include entity annotations for queries. for example, a document on the topic of obamafamily history may not explicitly refer to a, but may refer to other related entities, such as a and. in addition, for many existing collections, no explicit entity annotations for queries exist. in both cases, it is important to infer related entities and expand the query representation. entities provide a wealth of rich features that can be used for representation. these include text as well as structured data. some of the important attributes that we highlight for these experiments include: ne grained type information, category classi cations, and associations to other entities. although we do not explore them in detail in this work we also observe that the knowledge base contains rich relational data with attributes and relations to other entities. these attributes include: gender, nationality, profession, geographical information, and temporal attributes, and many more depending on the type of entity. we hypothesize that the language in the document contexts of entity mentions differs from that found in wikipedia or in the knowledge base description. but, mentions of the entity are also contained in text documents across the entire corpus. to address this, we propose new query speci. entity context models extracted from snippets in the feedback documents surrounding the entityannotations. we further hypothesize that this context information will allow us to identify entities that are relevant to the query and use their presence as signals of document relevance. context models that incorporate evidence from uncertainty inherent in automatic information extraction performing the rst published experiments using the facc freebase annotations for ad hoc document retrieval analyzing the clueweb facc annotations for their use in retrieval applications providing new entity annotated query datasets for the trec web track queries that substantially improve entity recall the remainder of the paper is structured as follows. in section #, we introduce the new feature expansion approach and introduce the entity context feedback model. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. we bridge the gap between entities and text using automatic information extraction to identify entities and link them to a knowledge base. however, these annotations are limited to entities that are explicitly mentioned, where we hypothesize that many more latent entities are relevant to the users information need. there are also relevant latent entities such as, and others. one issue is that explicit entity mentions have the same fundamental problems of query document mismatch as words. to summarize, the main contributions of this work are: introducing new query expansion techniques with featurebased enrichment using entity links to a knowledge base demonstrating signi cant improvements in retrieval effectiveness when entity features are combined with existing text approaches proposing a new entity modeling technique for building queryspeci. we experimentally evaluate our approach in section # on standard trec test collections including: robust, clueweb, and clueweb b. connections to related work are discussed in section # before concluding. we have been developing a task based service navigation system that offers to the user services relevant to the task the user wants to perform. in addition, to estimate the hierarchical relationships present in the activity model with the lowest possible error rate, we propose a method that divides the representation of activities into a noun part and a verb part, and calculates the mutual information between them. the system allows the user to concretize his her request in the task model developed by human experts. in this study, to reduce the cost of collecting a wide variety of activities, we investigate the automatic modeling of users real world activities from the web. to extract the widest possible variety of activities with high precision and recall, we investigate the appropriate number of contents and resources to extract. our results show that we do not need to examine the entire web, which is too time consuming; a limited number of search results from blog contents are needed. the result shows almost of the hierarchical relationships can be captured by the proposed method. an improved understanding of the relationship between search intent, result quality, and searcher behavior is crucial for improving the effectiveness of web search. while recent progress in user behavior mining has been largely focused on aggregate server side click logs, we present a new class of search behavior models that also exploit fine grained user interactions with the search results. we show that mining these interactions, such as mouse movements and scrolling, can enable more effective detection of the user search goals. potential applications include automatic search evaluation, improving search ranking, result presentation, and search advertising. we describe extensive experimental evaluation over both controlled user studies, and logs of interaction data collected from hundreds of real users. the results show that our method is more effective than the current state of the art techniques, both for detection of searcher goals, and for an important practical application of predicting ad clicks for a given search session. our hypothesis is that searcher interactions such as mouse movement and scrolling can help more accurately infer searcher intent and interest in the search results. thus, knowing the searcher intent would allow search engines to target ads better; and for advertisers to better target the appropriate population of receptive searchers. an improved understanding of searcher needs and interests is crucial for search engines to generate satisfactory search results, with applications ranging from search evaluation to improving search ranking, presentation, and usability. what makes the problem particularly daunting is that the same query may re ect different goals not only different users, but even for the same user at different times. for example, a user may search for blackberry initially to learn about the blackberry smartphone; however, days or weeks later the same user may search for blackberry to identify the best deals on actually purchasing the device. thus, identifying the most permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. eugene agichtein emory university eugene mathcs emory edu popular or majority meaning for a query is not suf cient; rather, the challenge is to identify the intent of the given search, contextualized within a search task. while previous studies have shown the effectiveness of eye tracking to identify user interests, unfortunately, it requires expensive equipment, limiting the applicability. however, recent work has shown the existence of coordination between the searcher gaze position and mouse movement over the search results. that is, like eye movements, such interactions can re ect searcher attention. these interactions can be captured with javascript code that could be returned as part of a search engine result page. this would allow estimating which parts of the serp the user is interested in, and provide additional clues about the search intent. to test this hypothesis, we develop a novel model of inferring searcher intent that incorporates both search context and rich interactions with the results, such as mouse movements, hovering, scrolling, and clicking on the results. the model is operationalized by converting these interactions into features, which can then be used as input to classi cation algorithms to infer the search intent from the interaction data. while many other dimensions of search intent have been studied, in this paper we focus on characterizing two general types of commercial intent: research and purchase, illustrated in the examples above. we focus on these intent classes for two reasons: a these are broad classes of informational queries, anddistinguishing between the two has signi cant practical applications, in particular, for search advertising. for example, a searcher issuing a seemingly commercial query may not be interested in the search ads if the organic search results are suf cient for their needs. in this case, showing ads could annoy the searcher, and contribute to training them to ignore the ads. so, if we could infer a usercurrent interests based on her search context and behavior, a search engine may then show more or fewer ads if the current user is in the research mode. the experiments in this paper follow a similar progression. first, we show that the proposed interaction model helps distinguish between known research and purchase search intents in a controlled used study. then, we show that when our model is applied to the search data of real users, the searches predicted to have purchase intent indeed have signi cantly higher ad clickthrough rates than those predicted to have research intent. finally, we apply our model to the task of predicting ad clickthrough for an individual user within the current search session which could have signi cant practical applications for commercial search engines. in summary, the contributions of this paper include: a richer model of searcher intent, that incorporates searcher interactions with session level state for jointly modeling searcher goals and behavior. empirical evidence that the predictions of the searchergoals correlate with empirical ad clickthrough rates. a large scale experimental evaluation of our model on predicting ad clickthrough, an important problem in its own right. survey the background and related work to put our contribution in context and to motivate our approach. complex search tasks such as planning a vacation often comprise multiple queries and may span a number of search sessions. when engaged in such tasks, users may require holistic support in determining the required task activities. unfortunately, current search engines do not offer such support to their users. in this paper, we propose methods to automatically generate task tours comprising a starting task and a set of relevant related tasks, some or all of which may be necessary to satisfy a user information needs. applications of the tours include helping users understand the required steps to complete a task, finding urls related to the active task, and alerting users to activities they may have missed. we demonstrate through experimentation with human judges and large scale search logs that our tours are of good quality and can benefit a significant fraction of search engine users. web search engines return lists of items ranked by estimates of their query relevance. information retrieval researchers have worked extensively on algorithms to effectively rank documents. in addition, some web search engines now offer manually curated lists of sites for particular tasks created by human editors. the editors picks feature of the microsoft bing search engine is one example of such functionality. however, individual items are often insufficient to satisfy complex needs such as understanding medical conditions, planning a vacation, or buying a home. when attempting such tasks, people may need support that extends beyond a ranked list, and alerts them to the steps required for task completion. for example, prior work has shown that trails comprising a filtered set of documents arranged in sequence can help searchers. tours and trails are frequently generated by human trailblazers. while this approach aligns well with vannevar bushoriginal vision in his seminal article entitled as we may think it may not scale to the broad range of search tasks that people can perform with search engines. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. white microsoft research one microsoft way redmond, wa usa ryenw microsoft com a time rather than providing a holistic view of the tour, which might be useful to searchers, especially novices in the domain of interest. we need to address these shortcomings and provide users with scalable support for search task completion. in this paper we present and evaluate methods to automatically create multi step task tours that can help users perform complex search tasks. a task tour comprises a trigger task and set of other following tasks that the user can attempt in any order. for example, a task tour for the query as generated by our algorithm is: real estate search; find a realtor; financial services; online maps; public education, indicating many of the key tasks required when purchasing a new residence. when the trigger task is detected, say via a query match, search engines can show the tour could be shown on the search engine result page accompanied by popular urls or domains for each task, indications of what tasks remain to be completed, etc. as we will show, human judgments show that the task tours we generate are of high quality and a log analysis predicts significant utility from the deploying task tours at scale. the remainder of this paper is structured as follows. section # describes related work in areas such as modeling search activity and creating guided tours. section # provides details on how we create the task tours. in section # we describe the evaluation methodology and in section # we describe our experimental results. we present methods to automatically identify and recommend sub tasks to help people explore and accomplish complex search tasks. although web searchers often exhibit directed search behaviors such as navigating to a particular website or locating a particular item of information, many search scenarios involve more complex tasks such as learning about a new topic or planning a vacation. these tasks often involve multiple search queries and can span multiple sessions. current search systems do not provide adequate support for tackling these tasks. instead, they place most of the burden on the searcher for discovering which aspects of the task they should explore. particularly challenging is the case when a searcher lacks the task knowledge necessary to decide which step to tackle next. in this paper, we propose methods to automatically mine search logs for tasks and build an association graph connecting multiple tasks together. we then leverage the task graph to assist new searchers in exploring new search topics or tackling multi step search tasks. we demonstrate through experiments with human participants that we can discover related and interesting tasks to assist with complex search scenarios. search engines are the primary means by which people locate in formation online and complete search tasks. queries issued to search engines have be categorized as navigational, informational or transactional. this particular categorization has been useful for characterizing high level information search behavior and guid ing the development of appropriate support. however, as the range of tasks that are possible online grows, more complex search activi ties, such as exploratory search, and multi step search tasks have been identified. in exploratory search, people seek to learn about a topic of interest or discover new information. in multi step search tasks, searchers attempt to fulfill a complex information need involving multiple steps. despite some trials, search en gines today do not adequately support either of these scenarios. for searchers who are either unfamiliar with their problem domain, un familiar with the process to achieve their goal, or who lack a well defined goal, there is a pressing need for assistance in their search process. when attempting such tasks, searchers require support that extends beyond a list of search results. they need task completion systems that provide assistance by, among other things, outlining the necessary steps to explore or accomplish a complex task. some previous attempts have been made to support people engaged in complex tasks by allowing them to take notes and record results that they already examined, or to provide task continuation as sistance, whereby the search engine can predict that a searcher is likely to resume a task and hence preemptively save and retrieve the current search state on the searcherbehalf. while these are good ways to support long term tasks, they do not help searchers directly explore or identify potential next steps for their tasks. other research efforts have focused on building tours or trails to guide the searcher through their search process. while useful, the methods proposed to date have involved restricted domains or hy pertext corpora rather than web search, or have retrieved fo cused trails of urls rather than lists of search results. other attempts have been made to augment browsing with serendipity, but have been limited to social media or to named entities. in this paper, we present and evaluate methods to automatically identify and recommend tasks that allow searchers to explore and accomplish complex search tasks. we identify these suggestions by mining query logs from a popular commercial search engine to first identify complex tasks, and then automatically generate a graph connecting sub tasks that are likely to have common interest from searchers. in doing so we learn from the aggregated activity of many searchers and apply this collective knowledge to assist others with similar search objectives. our focus is to identify that a searcher is engaged in a complex search task and to help them explore different sub tasks related to permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for per sonal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than acm must be honored. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. http: dx doi org year# their complex search task. to better understand this, consider the example query shown in figure #. when the searcher enters this query, the method detects that they are engaged in a complex search task and that they may be inter ested in exploring more or fulfilling more steps. the figure shows a graph where every node is a search task. search tasks are con nected if there is a high likelihood that both tasks can be steps in the same complex search task. the suggested tasks in figure # ap pear reasonable to help searchers identify other steps for a complex task involving a trip to grand cayman. note that this is a repre sentative set of tasks and there are many similar high quality rec ommendations in the task graph that we generate. since many searchers looking to fly to grand cayman have also been engaged in other activities to plan their trips, the proposed method automat ically identifies tasks about accommodation, car rental, trip planning and ac tivities of possible interest. we make the following contributions with this research: develop methods to automatically identify queries in large scale search logs that form part of complex search tasks. learn models to identify query intent and different aspects of the search tasks represented by each set of queries. construct a graph connecting tasks that are likely to be of inter est to searchers. this graph could be useful for a range of appli cations beyond task recommendation. apply the graph for the recommendation of a set of interesting and diverse tasks to support searchers during exploration. devise and apply metrics to measure aspects of task recommen dations, including novelty, diversity, and interestingness. the remainder of the paper is structured as follows. in section #, we describe related work in exploratory search, search trails, seren dipity and query suggestions. section # describes how we identify exploratory search intent. we describe the aspect extraction and graph construction in section #. our experiments and findings are summarized in section # and we conclude in section #. this study investigated query formulations by users with, which are users needs for the cognitive characteristics of documents to be retrieved, \em eg, comprehensibility, subjectivity, and concreteness. while search engines have become an essential tool for a wide range of purposes such as learning and investigations, users usually input a few keywords into search engines despite having diverse search intents. for example, users may input two keywords harry potter with different search intents such aswant to go to the harry potter of cial site, buy harry potter books, or nd a page that subjectively introduces the story of harry potter. relevant search results would be different for those users. therefore, permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author must be honored. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. the estimation of search intents has been intensively tackled in recent years, and a better understanding of search intents has been considered as one of the most demanding challenges. although search intents on the topic of documents have been dominantly addressed in the literature, not only the topic but also the cognitive characteristics of documents can be speci ed by users search intents. the cognitive characteristics of documents are de ned as the document characteristics perceived by readers, and these include comprehensibility, subjectivity, and concreteness. cognitive search intents, which are users needs for the cognitive characteristics of documents, can be seen in a wide variety of searches, eg, want to nd comprehensible documents on black holes, a concrete explanation of monopolies, or documents subjectively written about black berry. there have been several information retrieval research projects that have estimated the cognitive characteristics of documents, eg, those estimating the readability or comprehensibility of documents, and the concreteness of contents in documents. however, existing studies have not focused much attention on users, ie, the need for csis or ways of expressing csis. we especially need to understand users query formulations so that we can correctly interpret their csis from user input queries. we investigated users query formulations for csis as an extension of our previous work. we also evaluated how well a current web search engine could satisfy their csis in response to users and expanded queries. our ndings suggest users over adapt to current web search engines, and create opportunities to estimate csis with non verbal user input. moreover, we discuss problems of topic dependent query expansion for csis as well as estimating user dependent cognitive characteristics toward developing a csi aware search engine. the rest of this paper is organized as follows. section # summarizes the previous work on search intents and query formulations. section # classi es search intents to clarify the de nition of csi. section # describes a questionnaire based user study to investigate users query formulations for csis, and section # reports our ndings from this user study. section # discusses the ndings from, and implications of, this study, and section # concludes the paper. among all web search queries there is an important subset of queries containing entity mentions. in these queries, it is observed that users are most interested in requesting some attribute of an entity, such as obama age for the intent of age, which we refer to as the attribute intent. in this work we address the problem of identifying synonymous query intent templates for the attribute intent. for example, how old is and age are both synonymous templates for the age intent. successful identification of the synonymous query intent templates not only can improve the performance of all existing query annotation approaches, but also could benefit applications such as instant answers and intent based query suggestion. in this work we propose a clustering framework with multiple kernel functions to identify synonymous query intent templates for a set of canonical templates jointly. furthermore, signals from multiple sources of information are integrated into a kernel function between templates, where the weights of these signals are tuned in an unsupervised manner. we have conducted extensive experiments across multiple domains in freebase, and results demonstrate the effectiveness of our clustering framework for finding synonymous query intent templates for attribute intents. accurate understanding of the intent underlying a user query is a crucial problem in modern information retrieval. the understanding of userintent not only can improve the accuracy of the search results, but also enables new types of applications that help the user make decision and nish tasks directly. for example, for a query tom cruise age, an intelligent search engine would trigger the direct answer of years on top of the result page, which quickly ful ls the userinformation need for nding this fact about tom cruise. likewise, for a query map of chicago, it is more desirable to show a city map of chicago directly. another emerging application is the entity search, which returns the most relevant entities and attributes instead of relevant web pages. the examples mentioned above all require precise understanding of the intent of a user query. in this work we focus on the subset of queries containing entity mentions since they are one of the most important subset of queries. one previous research reported that of search queries contained named entities, another research found that of queries have entities or entity categories. we have observed from the query log of a major search engine that among the entity queries, other than querying the entity name users are most interested in requesting an attribute of an entity. we refer to such intent as attribute intent, which is the focus of this work. for example, obama age for the intent of age, the museum of modern arts phone number for the intent of phone number are attribute intents. an ultimate goal of the attribute intent understanding is that assume we have a gigantic database of all entities and attributes in the world, map all possible search queries to the corresponding attributes. this goal shares similarities with other researches on query annotation, in which they aim at annotating a query to a structured schema. note that the query intents in these works are not necessarily attribute intents. however, these approaches either require a lot of labeled data, or rely on a highly developed and structured domain database. most recently, unsupervised method does exist, yet it is limited in its ability to merge query patterns conveying same intent. not surprisingly, achieving the ultimate goal of attribute intent understanding automatically across many domains is very challenging. in some tail domain doing this mapping is not even possible because of the data sparsity. thus in this work we aim at mapping the attribute intent at the template level, where individual queries are aggregated into query intent templates, partly reducing the data sparsity issue. for example, for the attribute age in we have manually labeled randomly selected queries that have entity mentions. in which queries mention the entity name only, queries mention entity name and an attribute, and queries have other intents. person domain, age is a query intent template for the age intent, while obama age, tom cruise age are individual queries conforming to this template. we refer to the query intent templates conveying same underlying intent as synonymous query intent templates. table # shows two attribute intent templates as well as their synonymous templates. speci cally, in this work we seek to address the problem of identifying synonymous query intent templates for attribute intents. successful identi cation of query intent templates to their corresponding attribute intents can provide bene ts to several applications. first, it can potentially improve all exiting query intent annotation approaches by merging the synonymous templates. second, in the application of instant answers, it enlarges the questions that a system can answer. third, by knowing synonymous query intent templates, a search engine can recommend more queries based on rules between query templates for long tailed queries. table #: synonymous query intent templates domain attribute intent template synonymous query intent templates person age age how old is age of what age is institution phone number phone phone number for number to contact number to the best of our knowledge, there are no existing methods that directly address the synonymous query templates identi cation problem. for example, the above mentioned query annotation methods could be used to solve the problem. however, due to the structure and semantic difference between queries and query templates, these methods might not be feasible. we could also apply approaches for question paraphrasing in the question and answer research community. however, focuses on nding synonymous phrases on the question level, not on the template level. and aims at identifying alternative expression of the answers, while in this paper we focus on alternative ways people query attribute intents. thus these previous approaches can not be directly applied to the problem we are addressing. in addition, we can treat it as a string synonym problem, which previous researches have addressed with several similarity features such as distributional similarity, coclick similarity etc. however, from table # we can see that sometimes the synonymous templates may be different from the canonical template on small lexical variation and word orders. yet sometimes they are very different on lexicon. therefore, we can imagine that only relying on single similarity such as string similarity, it is very hard to discover templates that are synonymous to the canonical template in semantic level. in fact, the synonymous query intent templates share similarities among several independent, sometime complementary signals. for example, other than the lexicon similarity, they would manifest high similarity on the distribution of entities that occur in the templates. in addition, people tend to click on same set of documents when they issue queries conforming to semantic equivalent templates. for instance, itcommon that users who issue obama age and how old is obama will both land on the wikipedia page of barack obama. in this work we attempt to identify synonymous query intent templates by integrating multiple information sources. among multiple information sources, some are more important in determining synonym relations than others. moreover, the relative importance of these sources also depends on the domain: a feature that is crucial in the person domain might be only marginal in the location domain. therefore automatic determination of the weights of different information sources is critical. here we propose to automatically learn these weights via a novel clustering procedure with multiple kernel functions that cluster candidate query intent templates to the canonical templates and effectively determine the appropriate weights of the signals. other than the choice of information sources, there are different options for the mode of learning. we could identify the synonymous templates for a single canonical query intent template at a time, or learn the synonymous templates for all canonical templates jointly. handling single template at a time might lead to the dif culty of differentiating synonymous templates of close related ones. for example, for template height, weight could be identi ed as synonym mistakenly because they share a lot of coclicks. however if we learn synonymous templates from those two values jointly, this error could be corrected easily because of the awareness of each other. joint learning of synonymous templates also provides the must link and can not link constraints among canonical templates, which could effectively improve the results. in this work we address the problem of nding synonymous query intent templates for a set of canonical query intent templates jointly. we have proposed a clustering model with multiple kernel functions to take advantage of multiple heterogeneous information sources. qualitative and quantitative results on attribute intent templates from a large knowledge demonstrate that our method can identify synonymous query intent templates accurately. we introduce an entity centric search experience, called active objects, in which entity bearing queries are paired with actions that can be performed on the entities. for example, given a query for a specific flashlight, we aim to present actions such as reading reviews, watching demo videos, and finding the best price online. in an annotation study conducted over a random sample of user query sessions, we found that a large proportion of queries in query logs involve actions on entities, calling for an automatic approach to identifying relevant actions for entity bearing queries. in this paper, we pose the problem of finding actions that can be performed on entities as the problem of probabilistic inference in a graphical model that captures how an entity bearing query is generated. we design models of increasing complexity that capture latent factors such as entity type and intended actions that determine how a user writes a query in a search box, and the url that they click on. given a large collection of real world queries and clicks from a commercial search engine, the models are learned efficiently through maximum likelihood estimation using an em algorithm. given a new query, probabilistic inference enables recommendation of a set of pertinent actions and hosts. we propose an evaluation methodology for measuring the relevance of our recommended actions, and show empirical evidence of the quality and the diversity of the discovered actions. twenty two undergraduate journalism students participated in a controlled lab experiment, each searching on four tasks which varied on four dimensions: complexity, task product, task goal and task level. results indicate regular differences associated with different task characteristics in several search behaviors, including task completion time, decision time, and eye fixations, etc. we suggest these behaviors can be used as implicit indicators of the user task type. personalization of information retrieval tailors search towards individual users to meet their particular information needs by taking into account information about users and their contexts, often through implicit sources of evidence such as user behaviors. task types have been shown to influence search behaviors including usefulness judgments. this paper reports on an investigation of user behaviors associated with different task types. their result and similar work motivated our current research. a relatively recent, but quite significant approach to improving web search is personalization. personalization means the tailoring of various aspects of the search experience to specifics of the particular user, including that usergoals, search intentions, individual characteristics, and a variety of other contextual factors. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. this has principally taken the approach of attempting to identify the topic of the personinformation problem, and then ranking the results of the search according to that user specific intent. this is typically accomplished by inferring intent from user behavior, for instance click through or dwell time, and then applying some form of relevance feedback or result classification. one aspect of the information seekercontext that has been shown to affect information seeking behavior is the nature of the task, sometimes called the goal that led the person to engage in information seeking. extensive studies have addressed the effects of various characteristics of task, including complexity, difficulty, and stage, on search behaviors, including usefulness or relevance judgment. furthermore, white kelly have shown that knowledge of task type can improve performance of implicit relevance feedback predicted using dwell time. we are concerned in our research with being able to predict task type based on searcher behavior in the course of an information seeking episode. the rationale for this focus is this: if task type can be predicted from implicit evidence, then that knowledge can be used to interpret implicit indicators of usefulness, relevance, etc, in order to make personalization of the search experience more accurate and useful. to address this issue, we conducted a detailed study of a group of similar participants, doing realistic and well defined work and search tasks on the web, without constraint on the information sources or search engines used. this work reports on several direct measures of the observed search behaviors and their relationship to different facets of user task within a classification of task types. it is a first step in our larger project to predict task type based on search behaviors. generating alternative queries, also known as query suggestion, has long been proved useful to help a user explore and express his information need. in many scenarios, such suggestions can be generated from a large scale graph of queries and other accessory information, such as the clickthrough. however, how to generate suggestions while ensuring their semantic consistency with the original query remains a challenging problem. in this work, we propose a novel query suggestion algorithm based on ranking queries with the hitting time on a large scale bipartite graph. without involvement of twisted heuristics or heavy tuning of parameters, this method clearly captures the semantic consistency between the suggested query and the original query. empirical experiments on a large scale query log of a commercial search engine and a scientific literature collection show that hitting time is effective to generate semantically consistent query suggestions. the proposed algorithm and its variations can successfully boost long tail queries, accommodating personalized query suggestion, as well as finding related authors in research. the explosive growth of web information has not only created a crucial challenge for search engine companies to handle large scale data, but also increased the di culty for a user to manage his information need. it has become increasingly di cult for a user to compose a succinct and precise query to present his search need. instead of pushing this burden to the users, it is common practice for a search engine to provide some types of query suggestions. this work was done when the rst author was on a summer internship at microsoft research. permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. when a user types a query msg to the search engines, he will be provided with quite a few alternative potential queries. for example, he will be suggested msg chinese food, msg health, and other names for msg by google, and msg error, msg network, and msg seating chart by yahoo. there are also other query suggestion mechanisms which could automatically complete a query, and automatically correct spelling mistakes. such query suggestion mechanisms are usually developed based on morphological information of queries, or cooccurrence of one query word with other queries. although suchquery suggestions are proved useful in di erent ways, there is usually no guarantee that the suggested queries convey close semantic information with the original query. indeed, it is usually annoying for a researcher who searches for chris burges but is suggested with chris burgess or chris burge ministries. similarly, it is not very helpful to suggest kdd with kbb, kddi, ntt, and harry shum with harry potter. people searching for larry page maybe interested in sergey brin but not yellow page. a good query suggestion system should consider a handful of features, but in most cases it is important to ensure that the semantics of the suggested query do not drift too much from the original one. some users will issue the query msg to search for the sports center in newyork and others use it to search the food additive. msr could mean microsoft research, but also mountain safety research, or even mortgage servicing rights. without the constraint of semantics, a general suggestion to such ambiguous queries would easily be. another big challenge and opportunity for the current query suggestion systems lies in the suggestion of infrequent queries. it has been a well known theory in business that a company could sell less of more by boosting the long tail of the power law distribution. the same question lies in searchengine business, especially in advertising where customers bid for query terms. frequently clicked queries cost more and long tail queries cost less. if a well designed query suggestion system could route the traf all real examples are collected on feb. http: search yahoo com searchchris burges http: search live com results aspxchris burges http: search live com results aspxkdd http: search live com results aspxharry shum. and boost the clickthrough of long tail queries, there is a huge opportunity to maximize thebene ts forboth a search engine company and customers of its advertising system. is there a principled way to suggest semantically similar queries while also boosting long tail queries can such a method also provide a natural solution to personalization it is challenging because semantics is hard to de ne and both long tail queries andpersonalization usually su er from data sparsity. in this paper, we propose a uni ed approach to query suggestion, by computing the hitting time on a large scale bipartite graph of queries and clickthrough. despite its simplicity, this novel approach introduces quite a fewbene ts to query suggestion: the suggestions generated with the proposed algorithm are semantically similar to the original query; the suggestions generated do not have to occur with the original query; this approachboosts the long tail queries as suggestions; and this model provides a natural treatment for personalized query suggestion. empirical experiments on a large scale query log of a commercial search engine, as well as a public available scienti. bibliography dataset show that our proposed algorithm is. ective for semantically coherent query suggestion, which provides a potential new framework, or an important and novel feature for building a real query suggestion system. the approach of using hitting time is quite general, which could provide potential solutions to many other search related problems other than query suggestion. the rest of the paper is organized as follows. in section #, we formally introduce the concept of hitting time on a bipartite graph. in section #, we propose the algorithm of query suggestion using hitting time. we show our experiments and results in section #, introduce the related work in section #, and conclude in section #. net ix spends millions to look for an. ective way to suggest hard to nd movies. the ability to determine what day to day activity a person is performing is of interest in many application domains. a system that can do this requires models of the activities of interest, but model construction does not scale well: humans must specify low level details, such as segmentation and feature selection of sensor data, and high level structure, such as spatio temporal relations between states of the model, for each and every activity. as a result, previous practical activity recognition systems have been content to model a tiny fraction of the thousands of human activities that are potentially useful to detect. in this paper, we present an approach to sensing and modeling activities that scales to a much larger class of activities than before. we show how a new class of sensors, based on radio frequency identification tags, can directly yield semantic terms that describe the state of the physical world. these sensors allow us to formulate activity models by translating labeled activities, such as cooking pasta, into probabilistic collections of object terms, such as pot. given this view of activity models as text translations, we show how to mine definitions of activities in an unsupervised manner from the web. we have used our technique to mine definitions for over, activities. we experimentally validate our approach using data gathered from actual human activity as well as simulated data. many researchers have noted that web search queries are often ambiguous or unclear. we present an approach for identifying the popular meanings of queries using web search logs and user click behavior. we show our approach to produce more complete and user centric intents than expert judges by evaluating on trec queries. this approach was also used by the trec year# web track judges to obtain more representative topic descriptions from real queries. previous work on understanding user web search behavior has focused on how people search and what they are searching for, but not why they are searching. in this paper, we describe a framework for understanding the underlying goals of user searches, and our experience in using the framework to manually classify queries from a web search engine. our analysis suggests that so called navigational searches are less prevalent than generally believed while a previously unexplored resource seeking goal may account for a large fraction of web searches. we also illustrate how this knowledge of user search goals might be used to improve future web search engines. we begin in section # by looking at previous work on understanding information seeking behavior. if we imagine seeing the world from the perspective of a search engine, our only view of user behavior would be the stream of queries users produce. search engine designers often adopt this perspective, studying these query streams and trying to optimize the engines based on such factors as the length of a typical query. yet this same perspective has prevented us from looking beyond the query, at why the users are performing their searches in the first place. the why of user search behavior is actually essential to satisfying the userinformation need. after all, users donsit down at their computer and say to themselves, thinkll do some searches. searching is merely a means to an end a way to satisfy an underlying goal that the user is trying to achieve. that goal may be choosing a suitable wedding present for a friend, learning which local colleges offer adult education courses in pottery, seeing if a favorite authornew book has been released, or any copyright is held by the author owner. www year#, may, year#, new york, new york, usa. fourth avenue sw, suite year# calgary abp canada dlevinso yahoo inc com number of other possibilities. in fact, in some cases the same query might be used to convey different goals for example, the query ceramics might have been used in any of the three situations above. what difference would it make if the search engine knew the usergoal at the very least, the engine might provide a user experience tailored toward that goal. for example, the display of relevant advertising might be welcome in a shopping context, but unwelcome in a research context. in fact, we have argued elsewhere that goal sensitivity will be one of the crucial factors in future search user interfaces. but the potential to capitalize on this goal sensitivity goes beyond the user interface. the underlying relevance ranking algorithms that determine which results are presented to users might differ depending on the search goal. for example, queries that express a need for advice might rely more on usage or connectivity based relevance factors, while those involving open ended research might weight traditional information retrieval measures more highly. our premise is that web searches reflect a diverse set of underlying user goals, and that knowledge of those goals offers the prospect of future improvements to web search engines. achieving these improvements is an ambitious project involving three primary tasks. first, we need to create a conceptual framework for user goals. second, we need a way for search engines to associate user goals with queries. third, we need to modify the engines in order to exploit the goal information. in this paper we focus on the first task, and the initial parts of the second: characterizing user search goals and examining the problem of inferring goals from query behavior. next, in section #, we describe our model of search goals. in section #, we review the methodology used to classify queries using our model, and we provide some results from this analysis. we conclude with some final thoughts about the applicability of this work. we investigate the problem of mining tips from yahoo answers and displaying those tips in response to related web queries. here, a tip is a short, concrete and self contained bit of non obvious advice such as to zest a lime if you dont have a zester: use a cheese grater. first, we estimate the volume of web queries with how to intent, which could be potentially addressed by a tip. second, we analyze how to detect such queries automatically without solely relying on literal how to patterns. third, we describe how to derive potential tips automatically from yahoo answers, and we develop machine learning techniques to remove low quality tips. finally, we discuss how to match web queries with how to intent to tips. we evaluate both the quality of these direct displays as well as the size of the query volume that can be addressed by serving tips. for millions of users, search engines constitute the main entry point to the web, as well as a powerful tool to delve into a wealth of available information. the evolution of websearch engines has been very rapid. over the years, not only the quality of search results has kept improving, but a large number of novel features has allowed users to nd information directly, without the need to click on links away from the search engine result page. examples of such features include query recommendations, smart snippets, integration of rich permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. in this work, we take this approach further by attempting to answer common how to queries directly, rather than serving links to sites that contain answers. for example, when a user searches for how to round decimal inwe would like to display to round a decimal in: add and then oor the value what you call dropping the decimal. looks like this: int; we obtain potential answers by mining yahoo answers, the biggest online site for collaborative question answering. however, rather than looking at all potential answers, including those that are long or those that are opinions rather than concrete solutions, we focus on extracting tips. in our context, a tip is a piece of advice that is short, concrete, self contained, and non obvious. our focus on tips is mostly motivated by the limited screen real estate, in particular on mobile devices. furthermore, short and to the point tips are often interesting even when they do not perfectly address the underlying problem. hence, we expect users to be more forgiving than with, say, irrelevant web search results. to materialize our idea into a functional system we need to address three sub problems: identify when a user query is a how to query for which it is valuable to display a tip as an answer; extract tips from online resources and populate a large database of high quality tips; and given a how to query retrieve relevant tips for that query. each of the three sub problems has its own challenges which we we address in this paper. we address them independently creating a modular system, which is easier to build, evaluate, and improve. figure # shows how the di erent modules connect to each other. the ow of the paper follows the decomposition of our problem into the three sub problems. in particular, we make the following contributions: using query logs we estimate a clear how to intent in of the total search volume of a commercial search engine. this is done to demonstrate that directly answering such queries could have a signi cant http: yhoo it lys http: answers yahoo com characters is the maximum length for an sms. see http: latimesblogs latimes com technology year# invented text messaging html for an explanation of this limitation. figure #: a schematic overview of the system. impact, as most of the interesting open problems in web ir concern non navigational queries. we develop methods to automatically detect queries with how to intent, even when they do not match the literal how topattern. our best method annotates of the total search volume as having a how to intent. of this volume has a clear how to intent, according to human evaluators. we propose a mechanism to automatically extract tips from yahoo answers. we used a crowdsourcing platform to evaluate candidate tips found by our method. of the candidate tips were judged as very good, as ok, and as bad. given the labeled set of tips, we use machine learning techniques to lter tips of low quality. we obtain a precision of for the best method when separating potentially useful tips from candidates labeled as bad. we match the set of found how to queries to the tips labeled by the classi er. the matching algorithm with the highest precision returns a tip for of the how to queries. the coverage can be doubled to, at the cost of precision dropping to. to place our work in the context of question answering and other related work we survey previous research in section #. finally, we conclude by discussing drawbacks, strengths and future work in section #. search trails mined from browser or toolbar logs comprise queries and the post query pages that users visit. implicit endorsements from many trails can be useful for search result ranking, where the presence of a page on a trail increases its query relevance. follow ing a search trail requires user effort, yet little is known about the benefit that users obtain from this activity versus, say, sticking with the clicked search result or jumping directly to the destination page at the end of the trail. in this paper, we present a log based study estimating the user value of trail following. we compare the relevance, topic coverage, topic diversity, novelty, and utility of full trails over that provided by sub trails, trail origins, and trail destinations. our findings demonstrate significant value to users in following trails, especially for certain query types. the findings have implications for the design of search systems, including trail recommendation systems that display trails on search result pages. web search engines afford keyword access to web content. in response to search queries, these engines return lists of web pages ranked based on their predicted relevance. for decades, the information retrieval research community has worked extensively on algorithmic techniques to effectively rank documents. however, research in areas such as information foraging, berrypicking, and orienteering, suggests that individual items may be insufficient for vague or complex information needs. in such circumstances, search results may only serve as the starting points for exploration. search trails are a series of web pages starting with a search query and terminating with an event such as session inactivity. although the traversal of trails following a query is common, little is known about how much value users derive from following the trail versus sticking with the origin or jumping to the destination page at the end of the trail. in this permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. jeff huang university of washington seattle, wa usa sigir jeffhuang com paper we present a log based study estimating the value to users of traversing multi page search trails. our primary aim is to estimate the benefit that trail following brings to users under different metrics versus viewing only the origin and or destination pages. significant differences in the performance of trails over origins and destinations would suggest that users benefit from the journey as well as the origin and the destination. knowing if and when this is the case could help us build more effective search systems centered around trails, eg, full trails could be shown to users directly on the results page. we estimate the value of trails, subtrails, origins, and destinations based on the relevance, completeness, diversity, novelty, and utility of the information they contain. we conduct this study using a log based methodology since logs contain evidence of real user behaviors at scale and provide coverage of many types of information needs. information need coverage is important since differences in source performance may not hold for all search tasks. the remainder of this paper is structured as follows. section # describes the primary data source used in our study, as well as the extraction and labeling of search trails, and trail statistics. section # describes the experiment performed to estimate the value of trails or sub trails, including a comparison with trail origins and trail destinations. section # describes the findings of our study for all queries and different query types. findings are discussed along with their implications in section #. as the scale of available on line data grows ever larger, individuals and businesses must cope with increasing complexity in decision making processes which utilize large volumes of unstructured, semi structured and or structured data to satisfy multiple, interrelated information needs which contribute to an overall decision. traditional decision support systems have been developed to address this need, but such systems are typically expensive to build, and are purpose built for a particular decision making scenario, making them difficult to extend or adapt to new decision scenarios. in this paper, we propose a novel decision representation which allows decision makers to formulate and organize natural language questions or assertions into an analytic hierarchy, which can be evaluated as part of an ad hoc decision process or as a documented, repeatable analytic process. we then introduce a new decision support framework, quads, which takes advantage of automatic question answering technologies to automatically understand and process a decision representation, producing a final decision by gathering and weighting answers to individual questions using a bayesian learning and inference process. an open source framework implementation is presented and applied to two real world applications: target validation, a fundamental decision making task for the pharmaceutical industry, and product recommendation from review texts, an everyday decision making situation faced by on line consumers. in both applications, we implemented and compared a number of decision synthesis algorithms, and present experimental results which demonstrate the performance of the quads approach versus other baseline approaches. as the scale of available on line data grows ever larger, individuals and businesses must cope with increasing complexity in decision making processes which utilize large volumes of unstructured, semi structured and or structured data to satisfy multiple, interrelated information needs which contribute to an overall decision. the eld of decision support systems has focused on how to help decision makers to: a structure a decisionmaking process interactively, automatically access and retrieve decision supporting information, adapt decision models or analytic techniques for evidence fusion, andproduce. however, traditional dsss mostly suffer from in exibility in adapting to new decision scenarios. first, a well tailored dss is usually developed for one speci. decision problem, such that users are unable to dynamically input new decision scenarios the way that users of an information retrieval system can formulate novel queries. xed ow within a dss, which does not allow decision makers to easily leverage additional decision support information, integrate data analysis algorithms or tools, or further recon gure the decision support pipeline for better performance. a large team of developers who have some acquaintance with the decision problem and the application area are typically involved in development and deployment of dsss. as a result, dsss are normally very expensive to build and maintain. de ning a formal decision representation that accurately re ects a decision makerinformation need is a challenging problem. to support a more direct and effective communication between decision makers and the underlying analytic models and tools, and to provide a more exible solution, we propose a novel decision representation that allows decision makers to formulate and organize natural language questions or assertions in an analytic hierarchy, which has been shown to be the most natural and least ambiguous way to express an information need. we then introduce a new decision support framework, quads, which takes advantage of question answering technologies to automatically understand and process the decision scenario in real time, providing an overall weighted decision by combining evidence from answers to individual questions. question answering and decision support systems have been independently developed for decades. with the recent development of high performance question answering systems, which combine natural language processing and information retrieval, users can directly interact with an information system to evaluate evidence gathered automatically; ibmwatson is a prominent example. only recently has automatic question answering been applied in support of complex human decision making for speci. to date, a general approach for decision support using qa technologies has not been thoroughly and systematically studied. our goal in this work is to outline a formal procedure for representing any decision making process as a complex question answering scenario. exible and extendable open source framework that allows users to easily de ne and re ne decision scenarios and integrate various question answering components how can we apply the decision framework to real world decision problems, such as target validation in the pharmaceutical industry in particular, how can we formulate the realworld decision process as a decision scenario, and identify textual resources that are speci. to the task can we apply learning techniques to determine how decision factors in uence the decision, given sample decisions to learn from in this paper, we introduce a directed acyclic graph representation for decision processes, and formalize the decision making problem in the context of natural language question answering. the decision process is then mapped to a bayesian decision representation, to jointly model the entire decision scenario in a uni ed model. we present a messagepassing algorithm that is used to predict decisions and learn decision models from labeled examples. the quads framework was implemented as an open source software package, with wrappers for apache uima and the cse framework to support: a integration of any qa system deployed as a uima aggregate analysis engine, andcon guration, optimization and extension of the qa system with various decision synthesis strategies. we also describe another application where quads was used to implement a decision process that recommends products based on on line reviews. figure # shows the overview architecture diagram of the quads framework. finally, we describe how the quads framework was leveraged to help validate potential gene targets for diseases, one of the most fundamental tasks in the life sciences, using a real world dataset containing nearly diseases and over known gene candidates. due to their commercial value, search engines and recommender systems have become two popular research topics in both industry and academia over the past decade. although these two fields have been actively and extensively studied separately, researchers are beginning to realize the importance of the scenarios at their intersection: providing an integrated search and information discovery user experience. in this paper, we study a novel application, ie, personalized entity recommendation for search engine users, by utilizing user click log and the knowledge extracted from freebase. to better bridge the gap between search engines and recommender systems, we first discuss important heuristics and features of the datasets. we then propose a generic, robust, and time aware personalized recommendation framework to utilize these heuristics and features at different granularity levels. using movie recommendation as a case study, with user click log dataset collected from a widely used commercial search engine, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework over other popular and state of the art recommendation techniques. in order to meet web users ever increasing information needs, search engines are shifting their focus from the top blue link query answering paradigm to information discovery. instead of passively matching users queries to web documents, todaysearch engines are striving to proactively the research was performed during an internship of the rst author at microsoft research. permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than acm must be honored. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. wsdm, february, year#, new york, new york, usa. figure #: related entity suggestion feature on ma jor search engines figure #: personalized entity recommendation scenario studied in this paper. when a user types movie related queries in a search engine, like movies, skyfall, we show movie recommendations for this user based on his her past user log. inspired by this paradigm change, many techniques have been proposed to help users explore web content, eg, query suggestion and website recommendation. orts are conducted on a relatively coarse granularity. for example, though website recommender systems suggest websites of potential interest to users, they treat sites as black boxes without considering the content, and thus they cannot present detailed information to users directly. with the active study and rapid evolution of semantic web techniques, entity graphs which contain entities, attributes, relationships as well as other structural data become widely accessible. most recently, several commercial search engines have enhanced their search experience by displaying related entity information from entity graphs along with web search results. for example, when answering a query like skyfall, besides traditional web search results and the entity attributes of this movie, as shown in figure #, search en gines also suggest related movies or display people also search for results. these features take an important step forward in unifying search and information discovery experience, as the recommendations are now generated at the entity level. figure #: heterogeneous relations between users, web pages and entities however, to our best knowledge, no existing search engine currently provides personalized entity recommendations based on users past behaviors. to further enhance user search experience and improve information recommendation quality in search engines, we study personalized entity recommender systems for search engine users in this paper. by taking advantage of user click log and knowledge extracted from freebase, the proposed framework analyzes users preferences and interests, and then recommends entities of interest to search engine users during search sessions. by deploying such a system, when a user searches for movie related web content, in addition to suggesting related movies, we present personalized movie recommendations as well, illustrated in figure #. notice that in this work, personalized entity recommendations may not directly depend on the queries. instead, we use the search queries only to determine the domain of recommendation. in order to build such a system, we are facing many tech the major contributions of this paper are summarized as follows: conceptual: in order to improve user information discovery experience, we study a novel application, ie, personalized entity recommender system for search engine users, which requires good understanding on both user click log and the freebase knowledge base. modeling: we design a general learning framework which can model di erent features from both user click log and freebase entity graph at di erent granularity levels. experimental: we conduct experiments on user click data extracted from a commercial search engine. ectiveness of our proposed framework in comparison with several popular recommendation algorithms. the remainder of this paper is organized as follows. section # introduces the background and preliminaries of this paper. section # discusses features and heuristics in user click log and the freebase entity graph. section # introduces the proposed entity recommender framework. experiments and results are discussed in section #. related work, conclusions and future works are presented at the end of the paper.