in this section, we review related work in search intent analysis and task oriented search, for which we summarize applications focusing on query suggestion. we then survey prior work on procedural knowledge acquisition and its application, focusing on ontology de nition for procedural knowledge and algorithms to automatically extract semi structured procedural knowledge from text. search intent task oriented search broder and rose and levinson propose to categorize search queries into informational, navigational, and transactional and relate them to a more ne grained goal hierarchy. marchionini analyzed the userhigh level need to know and introduced the concept of exploratory search as an extension of the traditional lookup. researchers have also proposed to predict both high level and speci. search intents from textual and behavioral information such as web page contents, search queries, click logs, mouse movements and scrolling, and results of individual user questionnaires. identifying searchers intents and incorporating them into the search process can contribute to http: wikihow com wikihow: writerguide http: dl kuis kyoto. ac jp ntcir taskmine search query suggestion and prediction and selection of exact responses. the suggested query type depends on the original search query and the predicted intent. eg, when a user searches for an entity, search engines may suggest other relevant entities, actions paired with the entity, or attributes, mostly using declarative knowledge bases such as freebase or wikipedia. however, whether a task oriented search can achieve an analogous bene. from a procedural knowledge base has not been studied. in the area of search intent analysis, hassan et al studied the complex search task, a search behavior that is usually applied to task oriented search, using search queries. in comparison, our work focuses speci cally on task oriented search, and ignores other types of search, which allows us to take the advantage of existing procedural knowledge to more reliably support search tasks. we also study to how to build a procedural knowledge base with a full text representation of task oriented knowledge. the work by weber et al on extracting tips from yahoo answers to address how to web queries also incorporates task oriented question and tip extraction from unstructured question answer texts, whereas our work deals with only complex task related queries and focuses on identifying queryable snippets from more structured procedural knowledge. moreover, we also study how to construct procedural knowledge bases from search queries and result snippets, which can be extended to facilitate automatic question answering for community based qa. more recently, the imine subtopic mining subtask and the pilot subtask taskmine at ntcir focuses on identifying subtasks for a given complex task, and is highly relevant to our work. for a given task, possible outputs are expected to be subtask steps. we make a similar assumption that the given queries are focused on seeking information for complex tasks. procedural knowledge acquisition cognitive psychology de nes procedural knowledge as the knowledge exercised in the performance of some task. the semantic web community has attempted to formally de ne ontologies to represent procedural knowledge, which usually include an instruction and a purpose. also de ned in such ontologies are the relations between procedural knowledge elements, at different levels of granularity, such as has step, has goal or is achieved by. several automatic procedural knowledge base construction approaches have also been proposed to extract instructions from semistructured texts, eg, ehow or wikihow articles, recipes, community based qa, etc. most approaches take advantage of structural information, and de ne rules or templates to extract textual content. in a separate step, nlp tools are applied to extract relations and normalize each goal and action to its ontological form, to support linking to other ontological resources. researchers have also studied how to identify script knowledge which focuses on the temporal ordering of events. in contrast, our approach takes advantage of the writing style of semi structured procedural texts and proposes a set of structural and textual features for identifying procedural knowledge; the implemented approach can be optimized with a supervised learning method. moreover, beyond the conventional use of small scale procedural knowledge in ai planning or nlp, this paper studies the problem of how to apply an online large scale procedural knowledge base to complex task search problems.