one of the most well cited papers, by faloutsos et al, argued that the internet as level topology is scale free. this observation was questioned by chen et al, who showed that the degree distribution in the internet, though heavy tailed, does not obey a strict power law distribution. tangmunarunkit et al attempted to explain the heavy tailed degree distribution, and conjectured that this could simply be due to the heavy tailed as size distribution. most previous measurement studies focused on static topological properties of the internet, such as degree distribution or clustering, and did not examine the evolution of the topology over time. a recent study measured the average degree and effective diameter of the internet as graph and concluded that the as graph is densifying. two other measurement studies studied the evolution of the internet topology in the period year# year# with respect to several microscopic and macroscopic properties. magoni et al examined the evolution of some global internet characteristics and found exponential growth in the number of ases and links during that time period. the observation that the degree distribution follows a power law led to several topology generation models that could produce such distributions. these models focused on growing a topology that could match the internet topology with respect to certain measurable graph metrics. the most well known work in this area is the preferential attachment model of barabasi et al. park et al compared different growth models for internet topology with respect to several metrics such as the average diameter and clustering coef cient. the previous descriptive models received considerable criticism because they mostly focus on the degree distribution and clustering, ignoring important features of the internet topology such as hierarchy or the presence of links of different types. this led to new models that view the internet topology as the outcome of optimization driven activity of individual ases. norton discusses, mainly using anecdotal evidence, how economic and competitive interests in uence peering and transit connectivity in the internet. several measurement studies have highlighted the incompleteness of the topologies inferred from publicly available routing data. given that the inferred topologies are incomplete, much attention has been devoted to methods that capture as much of the internet topology as possible, most notably the work by zhang et al and he et al. their main observation was that for applications such as topology and relationship inference, the publicly available bgp data are reasonably accurate, and data from an increasing set of monitors is only marginally useful. oliviera et al tackle the problems of topology liveness and completeness, ie, how to distinguish between topology changes that are genuine link births and deaths, versus those that are caused due to link appearance and disappearance during routing transients. an extension of that model incorporated the random rewiring of. these concepts were rst introduced by carlson and doyle, and later applied in the context of the internet in and elsewhere. a recent work by chang et al models the behavior of an as in two distinct economic roles, and examines the topological effects of actions of individual ases when acting in different roles. a recent editorial stresses the need to further understand the dynamics of the as topology. zhang et al investigated the effect of the selection of route monitors on different applications such as topology inference and as path prediction.