spam is prevalent in all types of online communication medium. there are di erent types of spam: email spam, web spam, video spam, micro blog spam, comment spam, and review spam, to name a few. recently, crowdsourcing systems have also been exploited for posting malicious content. spam detection systems use a wide range of information such as content, link, user behavior, as well as http session information to tackle spam problem. next, we brief the spam on other platforms, and then review the spam on twitter. spam on email, web, comment, and product review. email spam delivers unwanted advertisement, fraud scheme, promotion, or computer malwares designed to hijack the recipientcomputer. to identify such emails, machine learning techniques as well as whitelisting and blacklisting of senders, domains or ip addresses have been used. various techniques such as language model, content duplication, link based trust and distrust propagation, graph based techniques, and user behavior modeling have been applied to ght against web spamming which can be in the form of content spamming, link spamming, cloaking and click spamming, and comment spamming. online product reviews are valuable source of information for potential customers to nd the opinions of other users about products before purchase. due to the importance of product review, spammers are attracted to promote their products and defame the competitors products. review content and reviewers behavior are utilized to detect spam reviews. as spammers are likely to post many pieces of similar content, near duplicate detection techniques have been exploited to identify such similar content and also the spammers. duplicate detection and classi cation technique have also been used for spam review detection. they considered all the duplicate reviews as spam reviews. in their study, they also reported that of spam accounts are identi ed by twitter within the rst day of creation, and of spam accounts within rst three days of creation. the authors also made the observations that of spam accounts have fewer than followers and of spam users exploit hashtags to make their tweets visible in search and trending topics. this is similar phenomena as in web spam and blog spam, where trending topics and popular search terms are hijacked for spamming. however, there is no existing study speci cally on hashtag oriented spam detection. realizing this fact, social honeypot are deployed to harvest deceptive spam pro les by lee et al. the pro les that are captured by social honeypot are classi ed using standard classi cation technique. we believe that many of these features can be used for hashtag oriented spam detection. however, before such research can be conducted, a benchmark dataset needs to be constructed. social bots are programs that automatically produce content and interact with humans on social media. in our data collection, we also observe that many tweets share very similar format and are posted by bots. other studies on twitter spam include the studies on the link structure of the users and the links to external resources. as in web, spammers have also used link farming technique to promote content in twitter. tan et al reported that spammers and non spammers belong to di erent communities in user graph. spammers may also include unrelated links with trending words in tweets. the authors further proposed online learning algorithms to cope with the fast evolution of social spammer in. spammers have used di erent strategies in di erent platforms, and they also keep changing their strategies to hide themselves from spam detection systems. for example, a topic model based approach was proposed for spam detection in product reviews in. features derived from part of speech tag, ngram, and sentiment of the reviews, have been used to detect such spams. however, it is not valid to consider all duplicate micro blog posts as spam posts. thomas et al reported that there is an underground market in twitter network which provides spam as service in a recent study. the re exive reciprocity indicates that many users simply follow back when they are followed by someone for the sake of courtesy. it is not di cult for spammers to gain a relatively large number of followers in twitter. other features derived from user demographics, follower following social graph, tweet content and temporal aspect of user behavior have also been analyzed and used to identify content polluter. castillo et al analyzed the credibility of tweets on trending topics based on users tweeting and retweeting behaviors, tweet content and link present in the tweets. social bots post tweets about popular and focused topics and follow back the users who follow the bots. using such simple strategies bots could get high in uence in twitter and may pollute timeline of users. these spam bots can be detected by social honeypot traps and also based on features derived from temporal behavior, tweet content, and user pro le. however, not all twitter users are equally vulnerable to social bots, and the behaviors that make users more susceptible to social bots have been studied in. to detect such spam tweets, matrix factorization model was proposed by hu et al to learn lexical information from external spam resources.