in this section, we review a number of important click models and introduce some preliminary assumptions shared by these models and pscm. as this paper mainly focuses on the in uence of click sequence, we separate existing click models into two classes: models following the depth rst assumption which cannot take non sequential click actions into account; other models which are able to consider non sequential click actions. note that most click models follow the examination hypothesis: a document being clicked should satisfy two conditions: it is examined and it is relevant ru, which is the probability of the perceived relevance, and these two conditions are independent of each other. ci following this assumption, the probability of a document being clicked is determined as follows: position based click models as this class of click models does not take click sequence into account, the click action is simply mapped to each search resultranking position. based on the assumption that a user examines from top position to bottom position, this kind of click models naturally takes position bias into account. craswell et al proposed the cascade model, which assumes that while a user examines the results from top to bottom sequentially, he she immediately decides whether to click on a result. the cascade model is mostly suitable for single click sessions. based on the cascade hypothesis, the dependency click model extends the cascade model in order to model user interactions within multi click sessions. dcm assumes that a user may have a certain probability of examining the next document after clicking the current document, and this probability is in uenced by the ranking position of the result. subsequently, the user browsing model further re nes the examination hypothesis by assuming that the event of a document being examined depends on both the preceding click position and the distance between the preceding click position and the current one. ri, di where ri represents the preceding click position and di is the distance between the current rank and ri. the dynamic bayesian network model is the rst model to consider presentation bias due to snippet. this model distinguishes the actual relevance from the perceived relevance, where the perceived relevance indicates the relevance represented by titles or snippets in serps and the actual relevance is the relevance of the landing page. where si represents whether the user is satis ed with theth document, su is the probability of this event, ru is the probability of the perceived relevance, and. represents the probability of continuing the examination process. although some of these models have achieved great success in interpreting clicks and in predicting relevance, compared to our proposed pscm, they cannot explain the situation where a user does not follow top down click sequence and they ignore revisiting or duplicated clicks. click sequence based click models to the best of our knowledge, only a few studies have tried to take non sequential behavior into consideration. xu et al rst proposed a temporal click model to model user click behavior for sponsored search. this model can only handle two results ads in an serp. the only non sequential click action in this model is: the user rst clicks the second result and then goes back to click the rst result. this makes it impossible to cope with the whole ranked result list like other click models. wang et al introduced the partially observable markov model to model arbitrary examination orders. the pom model treats the user examination events as a partially observable stochastic process. although pom can model non sequential behaviors, it only considers the examination transition at each position. therefore, this model cannot predict the click probability or relevance for a speci. query and thus can hardly be used in a practical search environment. due to this limitation, it cannot be compared with other state of the art click models such as ubm and dbn which need to predict click probability and relevance for a speci. it also makes the rst order examination assumption that the current examination behavior only depends on its previous examination step, which might not align with the real user behavior. xu et al proposed a temporal hidden click model to cope with non sequential click actions. they focused on the revisiting behavior and assumed that after clicking a search result, user has a probability to go back to examine previous results. however, their model is also based on one order markov examination assumption and supposes that users examine results one by one in examination process, which does not necessarily correspond to practical user behavior. while the above three click models have the potential to take click sequence information into consideration, compared to our proposed pscm model, their adopted methodology are less suitable to deal with practical search behavior of modern commercial search engines in we actually adapt tcm and pom in sec. to enable them making click and relevance predictions. they will be used as baselines to compare against our model. we empirically demonstrate that these models cannot achieve better performance than the popular position based click models. comparison, our pscm is inspired by the eye tracking study on real users non sequential serp behavior and therefore corresponds better to real world user behavior.