measuring similarity between queries is an interesting and di cult problem. a reliable query similarity measure can be very useful for a variety of applications such as query recommendation, query reformulation, query expansion, and advertising. however, since queries are usually very short and ambiguous, it is di cult to calculate their similarity only based on query terms. many existing approaches resolve the information inadequate problem in query by leveraging auxiliary information, including search results, clickthrough or search sessions, to enrich query representation for better similarity measurement. based on the augmented representation of queries, two major approaches are then applied to measure similarity between queries: pair wise measures. the similarity is independently measured on each query pair using pair wise metrics. for example, beeferman et al leveraged jaccard similarity coe cient over the clickthrough vector of queries as the similarity measure. baeza yates et al calculated query similarity using cosine similarity based on the aggregation of the term weight vectors of the urls clicked after the query. wen et al applied various similarity metrics over both query term vectors and clickthrough vectors to measure query similarity, including term overlap, cosine similarity, edit distance, and jaccard coe cient. typical approaches using the hybrid similarity measurements over queries can also be found in. in, deng et al introduced two new schemes for representing queries based on clickthrough and applied both cosine similarity and jaccard coe cient for measuring query similarity. in, sahami et al proposed a kernel function for measuring the query similarity based on the tf idf weighted vectors of search result snippets. however, for ambiguous queries, the information from multiple search intents are actually mixed together and thus pair wise measures without the awareness of search intents will be easily biased by dominant search intents and ignore unpopular ones. the similarity between queries is de ned on a query graph, or query relation graph. therefore, the similarity is not pair wise independent and the similarity of adjacent queries is considered. in some sense, graph based measures can be considered as propagating the similarity on top of the query graph. for example, craswell et al applied two types of random walk process to propagate the query similarity along the query url bipartite graph and obtain better similarity scores between queries. mei et al described a random walk on the one mode query graph and employed the hitting time as the similarity measure. in, antonellis et al used the bipartite simrank on the query url graph to measure query similarity. in, matrix factorization was employed to calculate query similarity based on the user query url tripartite graph. recently, bordino et al introduced the query ow graph based on the session data and employed graph projection to measure query similarity. work on such a graph to compute query similarity can also be found in. however, if the queries are ambiguous, the graphbased measures without the awareness of search intents will wrongly connect the queries with di erent search intents. topic modeling has been popularly used for data analysis in various domains including topic discovery, document classi cation, citation analysis, and social network analysis. topic models, such as probabilistic latent semantic indexing and latent dirichlet allocation have shown impressive empirical success in revealing the hidden structures of documents and in related applications like document classi cation and collaborative ltering. based on the above models, a set of variants and extensions have been further proposed to address document modeling problems in di erent scenarios. our work exploits topic modeling in a new application, and we employed a regularized topic model to fully leverage both search result snippets and co clicks to help learn the search intents of queries. there have been several regularized topic models proposed to incorporate auxiliary knowledge as a constraint into topic model learning process and show the resulting bene ts. for example, cai et al proposed two topic models, laplacian plsi and locallyconsistent topic modeling, which incorporate manifold structure information as a constraint into the plsi model to smooth the probability density functions. similarly, mei et al regularized the statistical topic model plsi with a harmonic regularizer based on a graph structure in the data. in, guo et al introduced a weakly supervised topic model, ie, ws lda, by incorporating human labels as a soft constraints into the lda model to supervise the topic alignment.