a proactive system aggregates information from multiple sources as recommendations in the form of cards, according to personal preferences. however, the content presented in modern information cards is substantially more heterogeneous. that are all still critical in the context of modern proactive systems. the proactive system is an aggregator of various types of information that are valuable to the user, such as calendar, weather, news, stocks, and places. ponnuswami et al proposed a randomized online audition framework for optimizing the aggregated ranking based on clicks. the cards presented proactively do not always need to be clicked to be useful. this is analogous to good abandonment in aggregated search, where the aggregated content from verticals do not always need to be clicked to satisfy the userintent. recent research by guo et al shed some light on this problem on mobile devices. the authors modeled viewing behavior based on touch interactions, and demonstrated the correlation of document relevance and viewport changing patterns on touch enabled mobile devices. proactive recommendations are highly personalized based on the user interests and context, thus making personalization an integral part the system. the proactive system also shares many properties of typical recommender systems. similar to such systems, we aim to present the most relevant content to the user in the absence of an explicit query. we will revisit this list in the following sections and provide more details about the most relevant studies when appropriate. while the study of proactive systems, as introduced in this paper, is a new research area, it has roots in earlier research. hence, our work is related to the areas of aggregated search, information cards, personalization, and recommendations. in this paper, we also focus on predicting future interactions with the cards for this new modality, which is also related to prior work on click prediction. next, we will discuss the related research in each of the aforementioned areas. rhodes and maes introduced just in time information retrieval agents as softwares that proactively retrieve and present relevant information based on the usercontext. the context could be inferred based on the content of documents viewed by the user, or physical attributes such as time and location. as in earlier systems, rhodes and maes focused on textual recommendations such as keywords, emails and documents. the authors nonetheless listed three key features for jitir namely, proactive non intrusive, and contextual. its counterpart for the reactive scenario is the aggregated search, where contents from specialized verticals are blended into organic web search results. diaz studied the integration of news vertical into web search, and proposed modeling the collection and query dynamics to detect queries with the news intent. arguello et al later extended this line of research to integrate various types of verticals, such as news, travel, images, and videos. sometimes, the displayed content of the card is suf cient to satisfy the userinformation need. lagun et al extended this line of research to model the viewports for inferring user attention and satisfaction on the reactive search engine result pages. in this paper, we incorporate the viewport based dwell time as card relevance labels to address this long standing challenge of good abandonment. in reactive web search, personalization has been well studied for tailoring search results by modeling individual user preferences from history interactions. one of earlier works on leveraging user interaction to infer document relevance is by fox et al, who showed that the user behavior such as dwell time, has strong association with explicit judgments of satisfaction and can be served as implicit feedback to improve the search experience. following this research, xu et al, proposed a method to estimate personalized word level dwell time from the usersearch and browse history. the proposed model can be used to estimate personalized dwell time on new documents to customize search result ranking. more recently, white et al proposed to model cohorts of users who conduct similar tasks to improve the search personalization. however, the recommendations in the proactive system are for a smaller set of items that are highly repeatable and heterogeneous, and need to be personalized and contextualized in its ranking. furthermore, we do not compare preferences across users and items as is common in collaborative ltering systems. different models have been proposed in previous research to address various biases in presentation which affect the prediction of future click through. one example is by chapelle and zhang, in which the authors proposed a dynamic bayesian network model, aiming to recover actual relevance from clicks by separating the modeling of presentation bias in result attractiveness. our task are similar in that we aim to predict future interactions with cards presented by the proactive system. however, the major differences lie in the lack of explicit queries, leading to heavier contextualized modeling of the user interests, and alleviating the lack of clicks by utilizing viewport based metrics.