first, pioneering approaches to expert nding could be classi ed as pro le centric. furthermore, each next class of approaches appears to be more. however, these approaches ignore the relevance of documents that serve just as the evidence of relation between persons. they were not fully automated and represented repositories of manually created skill descriptions of their employees with simple search functionality. however, apart from causing the new boom on the growing enterprise search systems market, expert nding systems also compelled close attention of the ir research community. the trec community created experimental data sets consisted of organizational document collections, lists of candidate experts and the set of search topics, each with a list of actual experts. in these approaches, all documents related to a candidate expert are merged into a single personal pro le prior to the actual retrieval process. the personal pro les are ranked like documents. a query using standard retrieval measures and corresponding best candidate experts are returned to the user. ective pro le centric methods representing the relevance model as a mixture of personal language models and then measuring the probability that a person would generate the query given the probabilities to generate relevant terms in top documents. all of them basically utilize a simple probabilistic model assuming that the probability of expertness of a person is a sum of relevance probabilities of all related documents. some recent works attempt to avoid propagation of the relevance of those documents or their parts that are not related strongly enough to the candidate expert. in one approach, only the score of the text window of. in the other approaches, either the overall pairwise distance between a candidatemention and the query terms or their order of occurrence in a document are used to measure the degree of association between the document and the candidate. all the above mentioned approaches share the principle claiming that the relevance of the textual context of a person adds up to the evidence of his her expertness. ective than the previous one, seemingly due to the estimation of relevance of the textual content related to a person on the lower and hence less ambiguous level. they ignore the complexity of link structure among persons and documents and hence do not consider the expertness of directly and indirectly linked persons as well as the relevance of documents found not in the immediate neighborhood of a candidate. ective for query independent tasks like nding the most authoritative experts in question answering portals and forums, they are inferior in performance to the state of the art query dependent expert nding methods. link based analysis random walk based models regularly appear in di erent ir research areas, but rst of all known from web retrieval. among them, pagerank, hits tagged text fragments corresponding graph figure #: expertise graphs based version is described by ng et. several attempts have been made in the last years to make these models query and content dependent. the intelligent surfer walks to linked pages biased by their relevance to the query. personalized pagerank allows to put preferences on certain webpages, so that the centrality of any document would depend on its proximity to preferred ones. both ideas were further combined in a uni ed framework which considered also the bi directional walk over hyperlinks. searching with graph based methods for typed entity classes on the web was explored recently in several publications. there are applications of random walks beyond the bounds of hyperlinked corpora. pagerank in graphs of terms, documents and document clusters was adapted for ad hoc text retrieval. finite random walk over terms through thesaural and syntactic relations is applied to query expansion and question answering tasks. it also used as a model of preference ow between users in a recommendation system. the presented work, to our knowledge, is the rst extensive study of relevance propagation with random walks on query dependent graphs in the eld of expert nding. expert nding expert nding started to gain its popularity at the end of, when microsoft, hewlett packard and nasa made their experiences in building such systems public. nowadays these and other companies invest a lot into making their expert search engines commercially available and attractive. the expert search task is a part of the enterprise track of the text retrieval conference since its rst run in year#. this technology was the rst step in full automation of expert nding in organizations and generally aimed to avoid manual maintenance of personal pro les. the follow up document centric approaches analyze the content of each document separately. in this connection, it is important to mention another line of research that proposed nding experts by calculating their centrality in the organizational social network. random walks on graphs containing queries and clicked links were recently utilized for web search result expansion.