since clusters are organized in a hierarchy, clusteringwiki extends conventional tagging by allowing tagging of structured objects. clustering is the process of organizing objects into groups or clusters so that objects in the same cluster are as similar as possible, and objects in di erent clusters are as dissimilar as possible. clustering algorithms fall into two main categories, partitioning and hierarchical. at partition of objects without any explicit structure that relate clusters to each other. hierarchical algorithms, on the other hand, produce a more informative hierarchy of clusters called a dendrogram. hierarchical algorithms are either agglomerative such as agnes, or divisive such as diana. in information retrieval and web search, document clustering was initially proposed to improve search performance by validating the cluster hypothesis, which states that documents in the same cluster behave similarly with respect to relevance to information needs. in recent years, clustering has been used to organize search results, creating a cluster based search interface as an alternative presentation to the ranked list interface. the list interface works ne for most navigational queries, but is less. ective for informational queries, which account for the majority of web queries. in addition, the growing scale of interface increasingly inadequate. on line, post retrieval clustering, ie, scatter gather was an information retrieval system. other related work from the web, communities exists. ing past query history in order results for future queries. tomatic algorithmic procedure wiki of the clustering results. ever, similar to clusteringwiki black box of the clustering procedure for easy understanding, steering and focusing. however, they di er from clusteringwiki in that their focus is still on the clustering procedure, where they adopt a constraint clustering approach by transforming user feedback and domain knowledge into constraints that are incorporated into the clustering procedure. prototypes that allow user editing and annotation of search results exist. for example, rank by microsoft and searchwiki by google. rants implemented a prototype with additional interesting features including the incorporation of both absolute and relative user preferences. similar to clusteringwiki, these works pursue personalization as well as a mass collaborative figure #: main architecture of clusteringwiki. the di erence is that they use the traditional at list, instead of cluster based, search interface. social tagging, or collaborative tagging, allows users to create and associate objects with tags as a means of annotating and categorizing content. while users are primarily interested in tagging for their personal use, tags in a community collection tend to stabilize into power law distributions. collaborative tagging systems leverage this property to derive folksonomies and improve search. in clusteringwiki users tag clusters to organize search results, and the tags can be shared and utilized in the same way as in collaborative tagging. similar to tag suggestion in social tagging, the base clustering algorithm in clusteringwiki provides suggested phrases for tagging clusters. social search is a mass collaborative way of improving search performance. in contrast to established algorithmic or machine based approaches, social search determines the relevance of search results by considering the content created or touched by users in the social graph. example forms of user contributions include shared bookmarks or tagging of content with descriptive labels. currently there are more than such people powered or communitypowered social search engines, including eurekster swiki, mahalo, wikia, and google social search. mass collaboration systems on the web are categorized and discussed in.