we classify related work into the following areas: energy measurement and models, power saving, rate adaptation. an empirical study of energy consumption on mobile phones for antenna antennas antennas, gsm, and wifi energy consumption, and formulate an energy model for wifi based on the transfer energy cost and the maintenance cost of wifi. neither model consid ers the effects of multiple antennas, data rate, and transmit power. ratio sesame is a system in which a mobile device creates its own en ergy model by using the battery interface with high accuracy. the scheme does not speci cally model the energy consumption of the wifi adapter. while their empirical observations are insightful, they do not develop an energy model. the energy improvement reduces to because mcs used by maxtput consumes less energy than its previous mcs due to a fewer number of antennas used. in comparison, mineng continues to use mcs and its energy saving jumps to. it is interesting to note that even though the channel degrades continuously, the energy savings do not follow the trend. and allow cards to enter power saving mode to save energy by. jang et al propose an energy management technique for by con guring a clientsleep duration and antenna con guration. sleepwell is a system that achieves energy ef ciency by evading network contention among multiple aps in the vicinity of a mobile client. mili is a scheme that reduces power consumed in idle listening by down clocking radio. all these works are complimentary to our work, which focuses on optimizing mimo transmissions to save energy. since ieee offers a wide range of rate con gurations, rate adaptation becomes more challenging. all the above works, however, focus on maximizing throughput and do not consider energy consumption. but unlike our work, which optimizes power based on the energy model, uses probes to search for the rate that reduces energy. in each case, the number of spatial streams is equal to the number of antennas. in region, when the channel is good, maxtput transmits using all antennas at mcs. mineng saves energy over maxtput in this region. rozner et al use virtualization techniques and energyaware scheduling algorithm to reduce background traf. it formulates the mimo ofdm minimum energy link adaptation problem as a geometric programming problem with an augmented parameter set under the control of the link adaptation protocol, but they do not empirically measure or derive energy models for wireless adapters. moreover, the data rate used by the probes may not be appropriate, which limits its effectiveness. energy measurement and models: carvalho et al present a simple model for power consumption in ad hoc networks as a function of the number of bytes and a constant radio overhead for all antenna con gurations. they also augment it to account figure #: comparison of performance of the static trace in the for channel contention costs. halperin et al study power consumption of the etput etput etput mineng maxtput etput etput etput mineng maxtput tx rx iwl under different transmit power levels, card mode, the number of active antennas and spatial streams, channel width and data rate. figure #: number of antenna used in the static testbed. figure # shows how mcs changes over an mobile experiment for maxtput and mineng. mcs to use antenna, mcs to use antennas, and mcs to use antennas. since mineng tries to minimize energy, it uses mcs, the highest antenna rate that can be supported by the current channel. as the receiver moves away from the transmitter, the channel condition degrades and forces maxtput to drop to mcs, while mineng continues to use mcs. in region, maxtput drops from mcs to mcs. since mcs still uses antennas but takes longer to transmit than mcs, mcs consumes more energy than mcs. in region, the mineng drops to mcs, resulting in longer transmission time. since maxtput still uses mcs, the energy saving of mineng reduces to. in fact, region has the least power saving: motivated by the power hungry nature of network interfaces, several works try to minimize time in idle listening mode. catnap allows a device to sleep by combining small gaps between packets into meaningful intervals, while detects mobile phone bugs that prevent the phone from sleeping. rate adaptation: many rate adaptation algorithms have been proposed for siso systems, including commonly used samplerate and rraa. shows effective snr is a good metric for rate adaptation to maximize throughput. more recently, the success of ieee has motivated researchers to develop rate adaptation for ieee n. proposes an interesting zigzag search to nd the rate to optimize throughput. is one of the few that considers energy in rate adaptation. also studies rate adaptation to reduce energy consumption.