there are currently many ad hoc methods where communities of people form to help each other with security related issues. countless discussion forums and websites exist for people seeking out advice and updates on security related information. security professionals often rely on email lists and websites for advance warning of attacks and exploits, and both professionals and average consumers seek advice on specific settings and on how to recover from problems. another example is web of trust, a crowd sourced web rating system, providing feedback from a community of users about the trustworthiness of websites. while these methods provide valuable information, they are not integrated in the security system itself, requiring the user to go seek out and understand the information explicitly, reducing their impact and use. several security solutions also have similar motivation, but without as much active participation of users. for example, the perspectives and convergence models allow browsers to ask multiple notaries about the legitimacy of ssl certificates. the friends troubleshooting network allows a machine to look for mis configurations based on the configuration policies of machines trusted by users. in our paradigm, we advocate the use of social influence by more directly involving users in doing the overseeing activities. community oversight allows for social influence the fact that people are likely to behave like those around them. social influence pressure can be both explicit, through direct requests for compliance, and indirect, through conformance of behavior amongst group members. if people know there is oversight over their actions, they are likely to change their behavior to conform to the expectations of those around them. limited social influence mechanisms have been proposed within the domain of information security. for example, digioia and dourish proposed the use of social navigation to aid users in making security decisions, by providing feedback about the decisions others have made. for example, users trying to determine whether to share a particular folder are provided with a visualization about the percentage of other people who also shared the folder, helping the user make a more informed decision. this approach has been further examined by goecks, besmer, and page for cookie, firewall, and privacy settings. while social navigation mechanisms do allow users to determine what the social norms are within a community, there is no community oversight or feedback, reducing the motivation and ability of users to establish and monitor good security practices. we aim to close that feedback loop, with people more actively watching over each other. the most related research effort is chetty et al where families were able to visualize and monitor home network bandwidth and network usage, as well as customize the identifiers of computers on that network. users were able to understand and regulate the behavior of family members to identify general network issues and prioritize the bandwidth given to different family members at any time. users also noted a security benefit in that they were able to detect when unknown computers were using their network, since they stood out from the custom identifiers the family members had chosen. this example demonstrates that by providing users with salient views of the underlying network infrastructure, they were able to utilize this information for monitoring and controlling usage. we similarly argue that by providing communities of users with views of security related information they will be able to regulate their behaviors.