our investigation of related work will be guided by a number of topics that have been pursued in recent years. first of all, we will revisit the body of work dedicated to measuring and tracking domain expertise, both statically as well as over time. secondly, there is an extensive line of work with the goal of query suggestion, reformulation and expansion. and nally, we will give an overview of those eye gaze or cursor trace based studies that investigated user behaviour during the various stages of the search process. modern retrieval models rely on a diverse set of features in order to produce the nal result ranking. white et al investigated the behavior of domain experts and novices during web search. additionally, the authors observed gradual developments in domain expertise over the course of several weeks of search activity. liu et al further nd characteristic di erences in user behaviour depending on the search task at hand. wildemuth studied concrete strategies and strategy types that domain experts and novices follow during information search. they nd that over time, novices learn to use the same search patterns as experts if they are exposed to in domain information for longer periods. this transition was studied in detail by liu et al, who investigated changes in domain ex pertise when searchers were following the same overarching tasks across multiple sessions. et al further showed session level evidence of domain expertise increases in response to in domain searches. the authors put a particular focus on the acquisition of new query terms which is explained by previous page visits. zhang et al pro posed an automatic prediction framework that was able to identify domain experts and novices based on a range of behavioral features. kim et al cast the expertise problem as a combination of preferred reading level per topic. in this way, they tracked the notion of topic normalized resource complexity for di erent users. building on the early investigations of spink and sarace vic, query suggestion functionality aims to aid the user at this initial stage. chirita et al rely on information gathered on the userlocal desktop in order to expand web search queries. eye gaze tracking has been used for unobtrusive tracking of user attention and interest for several decades. in the information retrieval community, a wide array of studies and applications have been proposed in recent years. cutrell and guan compare various degrees of serp verbosity for di erent task types, nding that inherently navigational tasks require less information per item than informational ones. granka et al conducted an eye tracking study of users interaction with search result lists. they con rm several established notions such as the well known position bias of user attention and note signi cant potential for using eye gaze signals as implicit relevance indicators. in a number of small scale qualitative studies, kunze et al use head mounted eye gaze tracking devices for inferring language expertise and document types based on reading styles and eye movement patterns. williams and morris contrast the xation duration of familiar and unknown words during silent reading. they nd that unfamiliar words receive signi cantly longer attention windows than known ones. saloj arvi et al, as well as brooks et al investigate a range of low level eye gaze features for inferring passagelevel relevance labels for information retrieval and collaborative ltering. loboda et al investigated eye gaze indicators of sentence level relevance. they found the overall number of xations, the number of rst pass xations as well as the total viewing time to carry most indicative power. interestingly, and somewhat con icting with the ndings of both this paper as well as, the authors could not nd any clues of term level relevance. there is some evidence of the origin of previously encountered terms being reused in active vocabulary, but there has not yet been a dedicated study to further investigate and understand this vocabulary acquisition process. independently, guo and agichtein as well as huang et al propose to infer user eye gaze and, implicitly, user interest, from mouse cursor position and movement. the authors show a substantial overlap between both sources that motivates further exploitation as for example presented later in this work. finally, huang et al predict click through on the basis of cursor position and movement signals. our work di ers from the above body of research in that: it measures user vocabulary knowledge and its development over time at a much ner granularity than previous. orts, which mainly concentrate on broad topic verticals. our model is based on actual observations of user attention to individual terms as evidenced by eye gaze and mouse cursor traces. previous work on domain expertise is based mainly on the posterior analysis of search engine log les in which the mere presence or absence of a term on a page or serp is regarded as a signal. information about whether the user actually saw the term, and if so, how long the engagement lasted, are not available. the breadth of existing eye gaze and mouse cursor movement studies has investigated many aspects of the search process. the timeliness and relevance of this study is further evidenced by several pieces of prior related work that explicitly state the need for a more qualitative understanding of query reformulation and term acquisition on the web. one family of such features is concerned with measuring how familiar the searchers are with the topic of their information need. they report higher likelihoods of search success for experts. query formulation can represent one of the cognitively most challenging steps in the information search process. kelly et al investigated query refor mulation behaviour by. ering query and term suggestions based on clustering and pseudo relevance feedback. they report a clear user preference for query suggestions over term suggestions. gao et al rely on information mined from large scale query log les to provide suggestions. independently, song and he, as well as ma et al, propose personalized query suggestions by analysing the userprevious click behaviour within the session in order to mine suggestion terms from skipped and visited documents. we will revisit this nding in section # of this paper. buscher et al use xa tion length and frequency as relevance indicators for query expansion and search result personalization. their work is closely related to the application scenario presented in section # of this paper. while their approach relied on shallow term level feedback mechanisms, we leverage semantic information via related or synonymous terms as well as using a wider array of eye gaze signals. ajanki et al use eye tracking hardware to infer document level relevance across a manually curated document corpus and, subsequently, generate alternate queries based on salient terms. in a follow up publication, the authors ex ploit a similar range of signals in order to infer post click document relevance. however, an in depth study of query reformulation behaviour at the term level, as we propose in this paper, has not yet been attempted.