results indicated that with user interaction, the precision of retrieval improved. similarly, authors in measured the di erence between the distribution of terms in relevant documents and in collections to score similar terms. di ering from the above two approaches, query reformulation replaces the existing terms in the query by more relevant ones. given a new query, their method replaced the terms with new terms of higher matching probability in the context. the model constructed a subset of query url nodes in the bipartite graph and performed depth rst search for relevant queries. by estimating the transition probabilities between queries using similarity based method, this model was capable of suggesting semantically related queries. this approach can be treated a special case of random walk on the query url graph where the urls are removed but used to calculate the transition probability. recently, the authors in introduced an optimal way of query suggestion using random walk. the authors addressed two important factors in the paper. the complexity of dealing with query suggestion related problems has led to a myriad of proposals of methods in literature. in general, this problem has been addressed by di erent techniques including query reduction, query expansion, query reformulation and query suggestion using search engine logs. however, this method is only useful for long queries. when applying to short queries, it only exhibits marginal improvement. automatic query expansion was rst proposed in, where the authors leveraged term correlations in documents as a metric to recommend similar terms. in general, query expansion techniques were able to introduce useful terms while also bring in unhelpful terms. essentially, it tries to map the query language model into document language model with term replacement. in, the authors used context distribution to extract term associations from the logs. similarly, using anchor text as the context for reformulation was recently studied. on the other hand, query suggestion aims at interaction with users to improve search experience by showing relevant queries on the search engine result pages and allowing users to decide whether to click or not. among all related techniques for query suggestion, log based random walk methods have shown good results. most random walk models are performed on query document bipartite graphs. for example, in, the authors introduced a backward random walk model which alleviates the bias towards documents with more clicks. the model normalizes the correlation matrix on the document clicks rather than query counts, which is why the transition from a document to query is not biased to popular queries. first, how to tune the jumping parameter in the random walk model and second, how to optimally combine the clicked and skipped urls in the log for relevance estimation. the authors proposed to perform two random walks on click graph and skip graph respectively, and optimally combine the results by minimizing the categorization error on the url correlations, which was estimated using odp data. experimental results indicated a signi cant improvement over previous random walk models. the three approaches mentioned above primarily focused on improving retrieval relevance. in, a parameter free random walk model is proposed which addressed the.