research in crowdsourcing has gained rapid growth in recent years. crowds have been explored to perform various human intelligence tasks such as large scale image classi cation, transcription and word processing. besides performing such hits on crowdsourcing platforms such as amazon mechanical turk and crowdflower, crowds have also be utilized as sensor carriers and operators, such as to sense the pulse of a city and to sense potholes on streets. a recent sur https: www mturk com mturk welcome vey on human centric sensing emphasizes the concept that humans can also serve as sensors themselves to detect and report events in the physical world, eg, to detect earth quakes, to detect desired ora on campus and to detect gra ti in public places. in this paper, we propose a new application that is to leverage crowds as sensors to sense quantitative characteristics in local businesses and services. such a capability has the potential to enable well informed decision for end users and timely crowd management for business managers and service providers. although physical sensor networks can also be deployed as an alternative solution, dedicated sensors, features and information processing algorithms need to be deployed and developed for each speci. in contrast, using crowds as sensors provides a uni ed, infrastructure free, environment indep endent and scalable solution. however, it also poses a challenge on information credibility which we discuss below. truth nding is to derive the most accurate and integrated information from diverse and sometimes con icting information sources. in the domain of truth nding from con icting web information, yin et al proposed truth nder, which is a transitive voting algorithm with rules specifying how votes iteratively ow from sources to claims and then back to sources. it has been shown to be superior than ma jority voting and the hubs and authorities algorithm which was initially designed to nd popular web pages. pasternack and roth proposed averagelog, investment and pooledinvestment algorithms, where sources invest their credibility in the claims they make, and claim belief is then non linearly grown and apportioned back to the sources. zhao et al proposed a more principled probabilistic approach which can automatically infer true claims and two sided source quality. in the domain of aggregating con icting responses in crowdsourcing tasks, dawid and skene modeled the generative process of the responses by introducing worker ability parameters. whitehill et al further included the di culty of the task in the model. welinder et al proposed a model consisting of worker compatibility for each task. wang et al proposed an algorithm that models both the truth of tasks and the reliability of workers for social sensing. they further extended their model to consider potentially dependent information sources in. nevertheless, these algorithms are mainly designed for categorical truth nding and some are even dedicated for binary truth. as a consequence, these algorithms do not directly apply or are not. cient for the quantitative truth nding problem addressed in this paper. we propose a more tailored, unsupervised tbp model which consists of quantitative truth, task di culties, and participants biases and precisions. in addition to designing a batch model inference algorithm, we also devise an even faster online version. as a consequence, the proposed model can be infrequently retrained in a batch mode on recent cumulative data, and then be used for online truth nding as new data arrive.