context aware computing is an important research topic of pervasive computing. according to the survey in, the active badge system is the pioneering study. context toolkit is one of the earliest frameworks for developing generic contextaware applications. it provides abstract components for programmers to build context aware systems and obtain context data from sensors conveniently. emmerich and roman et al suggest that the middlewarebased approach is a trend in software engineering to handle the mobile and pervasive environment. during the last few years, there have been many representative proposals in context aware pervasive computing using a middleware based architecture. among these, rcsm is the rst general purpose context aware middleware proposal that supports context aware behaviors in smart devices. gaia is a middleware based framework supporting the development and management of smart spaces in the pervasive environment. it incorporates an infrastructure for context awareness based on rst order logic. while its middleware based contextaware rule system and context triggered applications can be a suitable testbed for our techniques, whether our testing criteria can be effectively applied to rules in rst order logic requires further empirical studies. egospaces is a middleware that supports context aware programming. it is built on the mobile tuple space system lime. in short, our testing notions and techniques can be adapted to quite a number of representative context aware platforms with some adaptations such as interfacing requirements. since cabot is designed from the mindset of quality assurance, it is a good platform for us to evaluate our testing proposal. the prototype application of cabot implements the rfid based location sensing algorithm landmarc and uses the middleware to context sensitively adjust detected context information so as to reduce the average errors of the sensed locations. in the present work, cabot with its landmarc implementation is used as the testbed. in the rest of this section, we review the testing research for pervasive computing. when the execution sequence of any test input violates the speci cations, it detects a failure. flores et al apply temporal logic to de ne contextual expressions in context aware software. our previous work basically generates multiple context tuples as test cases to check whether the outcomes satisfy isotropic properties of context relations. it is a black box approach with a focus on the test oracle problem. it focuses on the test set adequacy problem. we also review constraint based approaches as the context aware interface can be regarded as a set of constraints. tai, among others such as, investigate a rule based approach to construct predicate based test cases. he focuses on speci cations of programs consisting only of predicate rules. jin and offutt propose a set of constraint based test adequacy criteria for software systems that need to interact with the environment. however, their target programs have explicit system calls to identify the locations where the environment can affect the program or be affected. when compared with researches in test adequacy criteria of standard programs, our notions are in line with them. the data ow approach has been applied to the testing of other nonconventional programs as well. souter and pollock investigate different levels of def use associations for objects with different levels of calling paths, and apply them to increase the test coverage of object oriented programs. kapfhammer and soffa propose a family of test adequacy criteria based on the hierarchy of relational database entities and a novel notion of database interaction graph to capture the def use associations for database entities. we capture def use associations among entities relevant to pervasive contexts.