we are pleased to announce the release of a tool that records detailed measurements of the wireless channel along with received packet traces. it runs on a commodity nic, and records channel state information based on the standard. unlike receive signal strength indicator values, which merely capture the total power received at the listener, the csi contains information about the channel between sender and receiver at the level of individual data subcarriers, for each pair of transmit and receive antennas. our toolkit uses the intel wifi link wireless nic with antennas. it works on up to date linux operating systems: in our testbed we use ubuntu lts with the kernel. the measurement setup comprises our customized versions of intel close source firmware and open source iwlwifi wireless driver, userspace tools to enable these measurements, access point functionality for controlling both ends of the link, and matlab scripts for data analysis. we are releasing the binary of the modified firmware, and the source code to all the other components. our results show that isleep achieves consistently above accuracy for event classification in a variety of different settings. the quality of sleep is an important factor in maintaining a healthy life style. to date, technology has not enabled personalized, in place sleep quality monitoring and analysis. current sleep monitoring systems are often difficult to use and hence limited to sleep clinics, or invasive to users, eg, requiring users to wear a device during sleep. this paper presents isleep a practical system to monitor an individual sleep quality using off the shelf smartphone. isleep uses the built in microphone of the smartphone to detect the events that are closely related to sleep quality, including body movement, couch and snore, and infers quantitative measures of sleep quality. isleep adopts a lightweight decision tree based algorithm to classify various events based on carefully selected acoustic features, and tracks the dynamic ambient noise characteristics to improve the robustness of classification. we have evaluated isleep based on the experiment that involves participants and total nights of sleep, as well the data collected from real isleep users. by providing a fine grained sleep profile that depicts details of sleep related events, isleep allows the user to track the sleep efficiency over time and relate irregular sleep patterns to possible causes. this study is approved by the institutional review board of michigan state university. it can provide a quantitative pro ling of sleep to diagnose sleep disorders. a recent in depth survey of participants suggested that, although most people are interested in using technology to track their sleep quality, many are resistant to the idea of having to wear a device during sleep. to improve the robustness of detection, isleep tracks the ambient noise characteristics and updates the noise model adaptively. we have evaluated isleep extensively in a long term experiment that involves participants and total nights of sleep, as well as using the data collected from the android phones that downloaded and installed isleep from google play store. sleep plays an important role in our overall health. having insu cient amount of sleep can easily cause fatigue and lack of concentration during the day. besides the amount of sleep, the quality of sleep is also an important factor in maintaining a healthy life style. clinical studies show that sleep is related to many serious diseases including diabetes, obesity and depression. this work is supported in part by the nsf under grant cns, cns year# and eccs. permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. to date, technology has not enabled personalized, in place sleep quality monitoring and analysis. polysomnography is the primary clinical tool for sleep monitoring. however, due to the need of various sensors, psg based sleep quality measurement is usually limited to clinical settings. actigraphy has been studied as an inexpensive alternative to assess sleep and wakefulness based on body movement. several portable sleep assessment prod ucts are designed based on psg or actigraphy technologies, including zeo, sleep tracker and tbit. however, they are invasive to users as they require a device to be worn by the user during sleep. this paper presents isleep a practical system to monitor an individualsleep quality using. isleep is very easy to use and truly unobtrusive: the user just needs to start isleep app and place the phone somewhere close to the bed. isleep uses the built in microphone of the smartphone to detect the events that are closely related to sleep quality, including body movement, couch and snore. based on the detected events, isleep infers quantitative measures of sleep quality based on actigraphy and pittsburgh sleep quality index which are two well established scoring criteria in sleep literature. we have released an initial version of isleep on the google play store. within days, isleep was installed by more than users from countries on various android devices. by providing a detailed sleeping pro le, isleep enables the user to be aware of irregular sleep patterns like restlessness caused by extensive snoring which are otherwise hard to nd. moreover, as an unobtrusive, portable, in place monitoring tool, isleep can track sleep quality quantitatively over a long period of time, which helps healthcare provider diagnose trends related to certain diseases. the design of isleep faces several challenges such as highly diverse acoustic pro les of sleep from person to person and in di erent environments. we carefully analyze the acoustic data collected from real sleep experiments and choose several statistical acoustic features that can di erentiate environment noise and various sleep related events. finally, isleep adopts a lightweight decision tree based algorithm to classify various sleep related events and derive quantitative sleep quality measures. our results show that isleep achieves consistently above classi cation accuracy for various events, across di erent subjects and in a variety of di erent sleep environments. the vast array of small wireless sensors is a boon to body sensor network applications, especially in the context awareness and activity recognition arena. we argue that activity recognition for mobile devices must meet several goals in order to provide a practical solution: user friendly hardware and software, accurate and efficient classification, and reduced reliance on ground truth. to meet these challenges, we present pbn: practical body networking. we explore the properties of different sensors and sensor data to further improve classification efficiency and reduce reliance on user annotated ground truth. however, most activity recognition deployments and applications are challenged to provide personal control and practical functionality for everyday use. through the unification of tinyos motes and android smartphones, we combine the sensing power of on body wireless sensors with the additional sensing power, computational resources, and user friendly interface of an android smartphone. we provide an accurate and efficient classification approach through the use of ensemble learning. we evaluate our pbn system with multiple subjects over a two week period and demonstrate that the system is easy to use, accurate, and appropriate for mobile devices. mobile devices are becoming increasingly sophisticated and the latest generation of smart cell phones now incorporates many diverse and powerful sensors. this work is significant because the activity recognition model permits us to gain useful knowledge about the habits of millions of users passively just by having them carry cell phones in their pockets. these sensors include gps sensors, vision sensors, audio sensors, light sensors, temperature sensors, direction sensors, and acceleration sensors. the availability of these sensors in mass marketed communication devices creates exciting new opportunities for data mining and data mining applications. in this paper we describe and evaluate a system that uses phone based accelerometers to perform activity recognition, a task which involves identifying the physical activity a user is performing. to implement our system we collected labeled accelerometer data from twenty nine users as they performed daily activities such as walking, jogging, climbing stairs, sitting, and standing, and then aggregated this time series data into examples that summarize the user activity over second intervals. we then used the resulting training data to induce a predictive model for activity recognition. our work has a wide range of applications, including automatic customization of the mobile device behavior based upon a user activity and generating a daily weekly activity profile to determine if a user is performing a healthy amount of exercise. mobile devices, such as cellular phones and music players, have recently begun to incorporate diverse and powerful sensors. these sensors include gps sensors, audio sensors, image sensors, light sensors, temperature sensors, direction sensors and acceleration sensors. the goal of our wisdm project is to explore the research issues related to mining sensor data from these powerful mobile devices and to build useful applications. our project currently employs several types of android phones, including the nexus one, htc hero, and motorola backflip. all of these android phones, as well as virtually all new smart phones and smart music players, including the iphone and ipod touch, contain tri axial accelerometers that measure acceleration in all three spatial dimensions. these accelerometers are also capable of detecting the orientation of the device, which can provide useful information for activity recognition. accelerometers were initially included in these devices to support advanced game play and to enable automatic screen rotation but they clearly have many other applications. in fact, there are many useful applications that can be built if accelerometers can be used to recognize a useractivity. these reports would indicate an overall activity level, which could be used to gauge if the user is getting an adequate amount of exercise and estimate the number of daily calories expended. these reports could be used to encourage healthy practices and might alert some users to how sedentary they or their children actually are. for example, music could automatically be selected to match the activity or send calls directly to voicemail when the user is exercising. we then built predictive models for activity recognition using three classification algorithms. bao intille developed an activity recognition system to identify twenty activities using bi axial accelerometers placed in five locations on the userbody. this work includes identifying a useractivity level and predicting their energy consumption, detecting a fall and the movements of user after the fall, and monitoring user activity levels in order to promote health and fitness. our work differs from most prior work in that we use a commercial mass marketed device rather than a research only device, we use a single device conveniently kept in the userpocket rather than multiple devices distributed across the body, and we require no additional actions by the user. this data can serve as a resource to other researchers, since we were unable to find such publically available data ourselves. finally, we believe that our work will help bring attention to the opportunities available for mining wireless sensor data and will stimulate additional work in this area. because of the small size of these smart mobile devices, their substantial computing power, their ability to send and receive data, and their nearly ubiquitous use in our society, these devices open up exciting new areas for data mining research and data mining applications. in this paper we explore the use of one of these sensors, the accelerometer, in order to identify the activity that a user is performing a task we refer to as activity recognition. we have chosen android based cell phones as the platform for our wisdm project because the android operating system is free, open source, easy to program, and expected to become a dominant entry in the cell phone marketplace. these phones utilize different cellular carriers, although this is irrelevant for our purposes since all of the phones can send data over the internet to our server using a standard interface. however, much of the data in this work was collected directly from files stored on the phones via a usb connection, but we expect this mode of data collection to become much less common in future work. for example, we can automatically monitor a useractivity level and generate daily, weekly, and monthly activity reports, which could be automatically emailed to the user. the activity information can also be used to automatically customize the behavior of the mobile phone. there are undoubtedly numerous other instances where it would be helpful to modify the behavior of the phone based on the user activity and we expect that many such applications will become available over the next decade. in order to address the activity recognition task using supervised learning, we first collected accelerometer data from twenty nine users as they performed activities such as walking, jogging, ascending stairs, descending stairs, sitting, and standing. we then aggregated this raw time series accelerometer data into examples, as described in section #, where each example is labeled with the activity that occurred while that data was being collected. the topic of accelerometer based activity recognition is not new. additional studies have similarly focused on how one can use a variety of accelerometerbased devices to identify a range of user activities. other work has focused on the applications that can be built based on accelerometer based activity recognition. also, we have generated and tested our models using more users than most previous studies and expect this number to grow substantially since we are continuing to collect data. the few studies that have involved commercial devices such as smart phones have focused either on a very small set of users or have trained models for particular users rather than creating a universal model that can be applied to any user. one contribution is the data that we have collected and continue to collect, which we plan to make public in the future. we also demonstrate how raw time series accelerometer data can be transformed into examples that can be used by conventional classification algorithms. we demonstrate that it is possible to perform activity recognition with commonly available equipment and yet achieve highly accurate results. the remainder of this paper is structured as follows. section # describes the process for addressing the activity recognition task, including data collection, data preprocessing, and data transformation. related work is described in section # and section # summarizes our conclusions and discusses areas for future research. this paper presents a recognition scheme for fine grain gestures. the scheme leverages directional antenna and short range wireless propagation properties to recognize a vocabulary of action oriented gestures from the american sign language. since the scheme only relies on commonly available wireless features such as received signal strength, signal phase differences, and frequency subband selection, it is readily deployable on commercial off the shelf ieee devices. we have implemented the proposed scheme and evaluated it in two potential application scenarios: gesture based electronic activation from wheelchair and gesture based control of car infotainment system. the results show that the proposed scheme can correctly identify and classify up to fine grain gestures with an average accuracy of for the first application scenario and for the second scenario. cross correlation is a popular signal processing technique used in numerous localization and tracking systems for obtaining reliable range information. however, a practical efficient implementation has not yet been achieved on resource constrained wireless sensor network platforms. we propose cross correlation via sparse representation: a new framework for ranging based on minimization. the key idea is to compress the signal samples on the mote platform by efficient random projections and transfer them to a central device, where a convex optimization process estimates the range by exploiting its sparsity in our proposed correlation domain. through sparse representation theory validation, extensive empirical studies and experiments on an end to end acoustic ranging system implemented on resource limited off the shelf sensor nodes, we show that the proposed framework, together with the proposed correlation domain achieved up to two order of magnitude better performance compared to naive approaches such as working on dct domain and downsampling. furthermore, compared to cross correlation results, measurements are sufficient to obtain precise range estimates with an additional bias of only cm for high accuracy application requirements, while measurements are adequate to achieve approximately cm precision for lower accuracy applications. following rising demands in positioning with gps, low cost receivers are becoming widely available; but their energy demands are still too high. for energy efficient gps sensing in delay tolerant applications, the possibility of offloading a few milliseconds of raw signal samples and leveraging the greater processing power of the cloud for obtaining a position fix is being actively investigated. in an attempt to reduce the energy cost of this data offloading operation, we propose sparse gps: a new computing framework for gps acquisition via sparse approximation. within the framework, gps signals can be efficiently compressed by random ensembles. by extensive empirical evaluations, we demonstrate the acquisition quality and energy gains of sparse gps. we show that it is twice as energy efficient than offloading uncompressed data, and has times lower energy costs than standalone gps; with a median positioning accuracy of. the sparse acquisition information, pertaining to the visible satellites that are embedded within these limited measurements, can subsequently be recovered by our proposed representation dictionary. we present the use of layered probabilistic representations using hidden markov models for performing sensing, learning, and inference at multiple levels of temporal granularity. we describe the use of the representation in a system that diagnoses states of a user activity based on real time streams of evidence from video, acoustic, and computer interactions. we review the representation, present an implementation, and report on experiments with the layered representation in an office awareness application. researchers and application developers have long been interested in the promise of performing automatic and semiautomatic recognition of human behavior from observations. successful recognition of human behavior is critical in a number of compelling applications, including automated visual surveillance and multimodal human computer interaction user interfaces that consider multiple streams of information about a userbehavior and the overall context of a situation. although there has certainly been progress on multiple fronts, many challenges remain for developing machinery that can provide rich, human centric notions of context. endowing computers with richer notions of context can enhance the communication between humans and computers and catalyze the development of new kinds of computational services and experiences. we describe in this paper our efforts to build probabilistic machinery that can provide real time interpretations of human activity in and around an of ce. the paper is organized as follows: we rst provide background on contextsensitive systems in section #. in section #, we describe the challenge of understanding human activity in an of ce setting, review the kinds of perceptual inputs we wish to analyze, and the problems incurred with a single layer implementation of hmms. in section #, we introduce our representation, based on layered hidden markov models. section #, presents the architecture and implementation of a system named seer that uses lhmms, and describes the details of feature extraction, learning and classi cation used in the system. experimental results with the use of seer are reviewed in section #. finally, we summarize our work and highlight several future research directions in section #. this demo presents wisee, a novel human computer interaction system that leverages wireless networks, to enable sensing and recognition of human gestures and motion. since wire less signals do not require line of sight and can traverse through walls, wisee enables novel human computer interfaces for remote device control and building automation. further, it achieves this goal without requiring instrumentation of the human body with sensing devices. we integrate wisee with applications and demonstrate how wisee enables users to use gestures and control applications including music players and gaming systems. specifically, our demo will allow sigcomm attendees to control a music player and a lighting control device using gestures. despite of several years of innovative research, indoor localization is still not mainstream. while existing wifi based solutions are highly susceptible to indoor multipath, cupid utilizes physical layer information to extract the signal strength and the angle of only the direct path, successfully avoiding the effect of multipath reflections. in addition, while previous approaches rely on multiple aps, cupid is able to localize a device when only a single ap is present. when a few more aps are available, cupid can improve the median localization error to, which is comparable to schemes that rely on expensive fingerprinting or additional infrastructure. existing techniques either employ cumbersome fingerprinting, or rely upon the deployment of additional infrastructure. towards a solution that is easier to adopt, we propose cupid, which is free from these restrictions, yet is comparable in accuracy. our main observation is that natural human mobility, when combined with phy layer information, can help in accurately estimating the angle and distance of a mobile device from an wireless access point. real world indoor experiments using off the shelf wireless chipsets confirm the feasibility of cupid. several innovative approaches have employed wifi ngerprints to design a precise indoor localization system. ngerprinting based system, without any war driving, or crowdsourcing. if we can somehow accurately estimate the distance, and the angle of the mobile device from only the direct path, localization performance will improve signi cantly. cupid accurately determines the distance, and angle of the mobile device from her ap, ultimately yielding her location. cupid requires no crowdsourcing, or additional hardware, but relies on multiple antennas present in todaycommodity wireless aps. furthermore, it can achieve reasonable accuracy with only a single ap, not to mention multiple aps. estimating distance: cupid relies on only the energy of the direct path to estimate distance. our experiments show that edp outperforms rssi, reducing the mean distance estimation error to from m. cupid leverages human mobility to identify the andp, from musicaoa estimates. in this example, as the user walks from location a to, cupid can track the change in andp. since da, db, andaare known, cupid can estimate, which captures the change in andp. from musicaoa estimates at location, and, the angle that undergoes a similar change is the actual andp. cupid combines the clientdistance, and angle estimates, yielding her location. by systematically addressing the key issues with wifi, cupid enables indoor positioning even with a single ap, making it a practical yet widely deployable solution. testbed results from a square meter building con rm our claim. ofcourse, with additional aps, cupid can reduce the error to, remaining robust to dynamic environmental changes. we believe that this could be a promising direction, and with rigorous testing and tuning, a potential candidate for the real world. our main contributions are summarized as follows: we identify the opportunity to utilize phy layer information to eliminate the effect of multipath re ections in wifi based localization systems. we distinguish, and harnesses only the direct path to nd the userlocation. we combine existing aoa techniques with user mobility to nd the angle of the direct path: cupid is the rst to reliably identify the andp by leveraging natural human mobility. we implement, and demonstrate our solution using commodity wireless cards: our algorithm exploits the csi information from the antennas of atheros wireless chipsets. in the following sections, we elaborate on our key intuitions, perform controlled measurements, and develop insights to design the cupid system, followed by performance evaluation. extensive interest in location aware services has driven many novel indoor localization techniques, yet it is hard to nd a solution that is widely deployable. while existing approaches try to address the problem by using several techniques, solutions based on pervasive wifi systems have remained the dominant theme of localization. however, the accuracy comes at the cost of expensive, and meticulous war driving. such war driving is not a one time cost because the indoor rf environment can change due to change in layouts and objects, or due to frequent and automatic wireless con guration changes. attempts to eliminate the wardriving requirement have been successful, but at the ex pense of performance, or widespread applicability. realizing this dif culty, there has been efforts to reduce the overhead of wardriving by using crowdsourcing techniques. apart from being slow to adapt to frequent rf changes, they remain unattractive because of a lack of clear user incentive to share sensor and location information. thus, despite decades of studies, the tradeoff between accuracy, pervasiveness, and cost has remained the primary challenge in designing a widely deployable indoor localization system. this paper is tasked to break away from this tradeoff, and achieve the accuracy of. although this is a high bar, we demonstrate its feasibility by utilizing wireless physical layer information, available from off the shelf wireless chipsets. we explore the candidate solution space using wifi, since an approach based on pervasive wifi will be easier to adopt. existing wifi based approaches typically rely on distance, or angle as the major metric for indoor localization. it is possible to estimate distance using signal strength, but rssi performs poorly indoors primarily because of multipath re ections. existing angle of arrival estimation algorithms also have similar shortcomings. the key problem is that it is dif cult to discriminate between multipath re ections and the direct path, ie, the signal component traversing along the straight line joining the client to the ap. whenever the direct path is relatively weak, rssi, or aoa is biased by stronger re ected components, which traverses longer distance, and perhaps a different angle than the direct path. our system, cupid distinguishes the direct path from multipath re ections by leveraging phy layer information along with natural human mobility. we nd that a phy layer information called channel state information exported from atheros cards can be used to estimate the edp of a received signal. further, we nd that it is possible to estimate the propagation characteristics of the signal based on the edp. consequently, while converting the energy estimate to distance, cupid can correctly choose critical parameters such as path loss exponent. estimating angle: angle of arrival techniques, such as mu sic, can estimate the angles at which the transmitted signal arrives at the receiver. however they cannot determine which of these angles corresponds to the angle of the direct path. the ap uses the edp to estimate the distance of the mobile client, da, and db, when it is at location a andrespectively. it estimates the userdisplacement between location, and, by using her phoneinertial sensors a method called dead reckoning. we show that by employing the csi from the antennas of the atheros chipset, cupid can achieve a mean andp estimation error of. with a single ap, cupid can achieve a median localization error of m. we demonstrate how the energy of the direct path can be a reliable indicator of distance: our solution is the rst to identify the relationship between edp and path loss exponent. we end the paper with a discussion on open questions, opportunities, and the scope for future work. we believe this is an important step forward, compared to the best indoor localization schemes of today, such as horus. we attempt to harness these opportunities through a functional system called pinloc, implemented on off the shelf intel cards. we evaluate the system in a busy engineering building, a crowded student center, a cafeteria, and at the duke university museum, and demonstrate localization accuracies in the granularity of x boxes, called spots. results from spots show that pinloc is able to localize users to the correct spot with mean accuracy, while incurring less than false positives. this paper explores the viability of precise indoor localization using physical layer information in wifi systems. we find evidence that channel responses from multiple ofdm subcarriers can be a promising location signature. while these signatures certainly vary over time and environmental mobility, we notice that their core structure preserves certain properties that are amenable to localization. background subtraction is often the first step of many computer vision applications. for a background subtraction method to be useful in embedded camera networks, it must be both accurate and computationally efficient because of the resource constraints on embedded platforms. this makes many traditional background subtraction algorithms unsuitable for embedded platforms because they use complex statistical models to handle subtle illumination changes. these models make them accurate but the computational requirement of these complex models is often too high for embedded platforms. in this paper, we propose a new background subtraction method which is both accurate and computational efficient. the key idea is to use compressive sensing to reduce the dimensionality of the data while retaining most of the information. by using multiple datasets, we show that the accuracy of our proposed background subtraction method is comparable to that of the traditional background subtraction methods. moreover, real implementation on an embedded camera platform shows that our proposed method is at least times faster, and consumes significantly less energy and memory resources than the conventional approaches. finally, we demonstrated the feasibility of the proposed method by the implementation and evaluation of an end to end real time embedded camera network target tracking application. face recognition is an element of many smartphone apps, eg, face unlocking, people tagging and games. sparse representation classification is a state of the art face recognition algorithm, which has been shown to outperform many classical face recognition algorithms in opencv. the success of src is due to its use of, which makes src robust to noise and occlusions. since optmisation is computationally intensive, src uses random projection matrices to reduce the dimension of the problem. however, random projection matrices do not give consistent classification accuracy. in this paper, we propose a method to optimise the projection matrix for based classification. our evaluations, based on publicly available databases and real experiment, show that face recognition based on the optimised projection matrix can be more accurate than its random counterpart and opencv algorithms. furthermore, the optimised projection matrix does not have to be re calculated even if new faces are added to the training set. we implement the src with optimised projection matrix on android smartphones and find that the computation of residuals in src is a severe bottleneck, taking up of the computation time. to address this problem, we propose a method to compute the residuals approximately, which is times faster but without sacrificing recognition accuracy. lastly, we demonstrate the feasibility of our new algorithm by the implementation and evaluation of a new face unlocking app and show its robustness to variation to poses, facial expressions, lighting changes and occlusions. recent literature advances wi fi signals to see people motions and locations. this paper asks the following question: can wi fi hear our talks we present wihear, which enables wi fi signals to hear our talks without deploying any devices. to achieve this, wihear needs to detect and analyze fine grained radio reflections from mouth movements. wihear solves this micro movement detection problem by introducing mouth motion profile that leverages partial multipath effects and wavelet packet transformation. since wi fi signals do not require line of sight, wihear can hear people talks within the radio range. further, wihear can simultaneously hear multiple people talks leveraging mimo technology. we implement wihear on both usrp platform and commercial wi fi infrastructure. results show that within our pre defined vocabulary, wihear can achieve detection accuracy of on average for single individual speaking no more than words and up to for no more than people talking simultaneously. moreover, the detection accuracy can be further improved by deploying multiple receivers from different angles. recent research has pushed the limit of ism band radiometric detection to a new level, including motion detection, gesture recognition, localization, and even classi cation. we can now detect motions through wall and recognize human gestures, or even detect and locate tumors inside human permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author must be honored. to copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. by detecting and analyzing signal re ection, they enable wi fi to see target ob jects. can we use wi fi signals to hear talks it is commonsensical to give a negative answer. for many years, the ability of hearing people talks can only be achieved by deploying acoustic sensors closely around the target individuals. it costs a lot and has a limited sensing and communication range. further, it has detection delay because the sensor must rst record the sound and process it, then transmit it to the receiver. in addition, it cannot be decoded when the surrounding is too noisy. this paper presents wihear, which explores the potential of using wi fi signals to hear people talk and transmit the talking information to the detector at the same time. this may have many potential applications: wihear introduces a new way to hear people talks without deploying any acoustic sensors. further, it still works well even when the surrounding is noisy. wihear will bring a new interactive interface between human and devices, which enables devices to sense and recognize more complicated human behaviors with negligible cost. wihear can help millions of disabled people to conduct simple commands to deviceswithonlymouth motionsinstead ofcomplicatedand inconvenient body movements. how can we manage wi fi hearing it sounds impossible at rst glance, as wi fi signals cannot detect or memorize any sound. the key insight is similar to radar systems. wihearlocatesthemouthofanindividual, andthenrecognizes his words by monitoring the signal re ections from his mouth. by recognizing mouth moving patterns, wihear can extract talking information the same way as lip reading. thus, wihear introduces a micro motion detection scheme that most of previous literature can not achieve. and this minor movement detection can also achieve the ability like leap motion. the closest works are wisee and wivi, which can only detect more notable motions such as moving arms or legs using doppler shifts or isar techniques. to transform the above high level idea into a practical system, we need to address the following challenges: how to detect and extract tiny signal re ections from the mouth only movements of surrounding people, and other facial movement from the target user may. ect radio re ections more signi cantly than mouth movements do. it is challenging to cancel these interferences from the received signals while retaining the information from the tiny mouth motions. figure #: illustration of vowels and consonants that wihear can detect and recognize, gary. to address this issue, wihear rst leverages mimo beamforming to focus on the targetmouth to reduce irrelevant multipath. such avoidance of irrelevant multipath will enhance wiheardetection accuracy, since the impact from other peoplemovements will not dominate when the radio beam is located on the target individual. user, the frequency and pattern of wink is relatively stable, wihear exploits interference cancelation to remove the periodic uctuation caused by wink. how to analyze the tiny radio re ections without any change on current wi fi signals recent advances harness customized modulation like frequency modulated carrier waves. others like use ultra wide band and large antenna array to achieve precise motion tracking. moreover, since mouth motions induce negligible doppler shifts, approaches like wisee are inapplicable. wihear can be easily implemented on commercial wi fi devices. we introduce mouth motion pro les, which partially leverage multipath. traditional wireless motion detection focuses on movements of arms or body, which can be simpli ed as a rigid body. however, mouth movement is a non rigid motion process. that is, when pronouncing a word, di erent parts of the mouth have di erent moving speeds and directions. we thus cannot regard the mouth movements as a whole. instead, we need to leverage multipath to capture the movements of di erent parts of the mouth. in addition, since naturally only one individual is talking during a conversation, the above di culties only focus on single individual speaking. how to recognize multiple individuals talking simultaneously is another big challenge. the reason for this extension is that, in public areas like airports or bus stations, multiple talks happen simultaneously. wi hear enables hear multiple individuals simultaneously talks using mimo technology. we let the senders form multiple radio beams to locate on di erent targets. thus, we can regard the target group of people as the senders of the re ection signals from their mouths. by implementing a receiver with multiple antennas and enabling mimo technology, it can decode multiple senders talks simultaneously. summary of results: we implemented wihear in both usrp and commercial wi fi products. figure depicts some syllables that wihear can recognize. overall, wihear can recognize di erent syllables, trained and tested words. further, wihear can correct recognition errors by leveraging related context information. in our experiments, we collect training and testing samples at roughly the same location with the same link pairs. all the experiments are per person trained and tested. forsingleusercases, wihearcan achieveanaverage detection accuracy of to correctly recognize sentences made up of no more than words, and it works in both line ofsight and non line of sight scenarios. with the help of mimo technology, wihear can di erentiate up to individuals simultaneously talking with accuracy up to. for through wall detection of single user, the accuracy is up to with one link pair, and with receivers from di erent angles. in addition, based on our experimental results, the detection accuracy can be further improved by deploying multiple receivers from di erent angles. contributions: we summarize the main contributions of wihear as follows: wihear exploits the radiometric characteristics of mouth movements to analyze micro motion in a non invasive and device free manner. to the best of our knowledge, this is the rst. ort using wi fi signals to hear people talk via phy layer csi on. wihear achieves lip reading and speech recognition in los, nlos and through wall scenarios. wihear introduces mouth motion pro le using partial multipath. ect and discrete wavelet packet transformation to achieve lip reading with wi fi. we simultaneously di erentiate multiple individuals talks using mimo technology. in the rest of this paper, we rst summarize related work in section #, followed by an overview in section #. section # extends wihear to recognize multiple talks. we present the implementation and performance evaluation in section #, discuss the limitations in section #, and conclude in section #. acoustic sensor networks have a wide range of applications in natural and urban environment monitoring, as well as indoor activity monitoring. in network classification is critically important in asns because wireless transmission costs several orders of magnitude more energy than computation. the main challenges of in network classification in asns include effective feature selection, intensive computation requirement and high noise levels. to address these challenges, we propose a sparse representation based feature less, low computational cost, and noise resilient framework for in network classification in asns. the key component of sparse approximation based classification, minimization, is a convex optimization problem, and is known to be computationally expensive. furthermore, sac algorithms assumes that the test samples are a linear combination of a few training samples in the training sets. for acoustic applications, this results in a very large training dictionary, making the computation infeasible to be performed on resource constrained asn platforms. therefore, we propose several techniques to reduce the size of the problem, so as to fit sac for in network classification in asns. our extensive evaluation using two real life datasets shows that the proposed sac framework outperforms conventional approaches such as support vector machines andnearest neighbor in terms of classification accuracy and robustness. moreover, our sac approach can deal with multi label classification which is common in asns. finally, we explore the system design spaces and demonstrate the real time feasibility of the proposed framework by the implementation and evaluation of an acoustic classification application on an embedded asn testbed. acoustic sensor networks have been prototyped for many military and civilian applications such as animal vocalization recognition, military vehicle classi cation, tracking and indoor activity classi. because the sampling rates of asns are several orders of magnitude higher than those of traditional wireless sensor networks, enormous amount of data are collected by asns. it is known that wireless transmission of a bit costs over, times more energy than a single bit computation. therefore, in network classi cation, which enables asn nodes to perform acoustic classi cation on its own without having to transmit acoustic data, is of critical importance for asns. a popular method for acoustic classi cation is to rst select the appropriate features, which are often problem speci, and then feed the selected features to classi ers such as support vector machines. however, the selection of good features is not a trivial problem and the performance of the classi cation algorithm often depends on the selection of good features. moreover, di erent feature selections can result in signi cantly di erent classi cation accuracy for certain acoustic signals, ranging from to. cients is one of the most popular features which, together with svms, has been used successfully in asns, mfcc usually needs other carefully selected features to improve classi cation performance. an alternative to feature selection is to use featureless classi cation methods. a recent success story is the sparse approximation based classi cation method proposed by wright et al for face recognition. this method forms a dictionary from the pixels of the training images directly and uses minimization to determine the best match of the test image among the training classes in the dictionary. the method has been shown to outperform state of the art classi ers based on svms andnearest neighbors. motivated by this promising outcome, we are interested in investigating the use of sac in asns. the biggest challenge is that, due to the high sampling rate of acoustic signals, the dictionary formed by the featureless sac method is large. this has two important implications for asns because this dictionary has to be stored on an asn node in order to enable in network classi cation. first, a large dictionary means that an asn node can only store a limited number of training classes. this limits the number of di erent types of acoustic signals that an asn node can classify. second, the computation time for minimization is proportional to the size of the dictionary. this means that real time classi cation may only be possible if the number of classes is small. the purpose of real time classi cation in asns is two fold. first, some asn applications such as military vehicle tracking require real time event reporting. second, a node needs to nish processing the captured audio signal in real time because the audio signal input is a continuous stream. otherwise, part of the captured audio signal will be lost in order to address this problem of high dictionary dimensionality, we propose a novel method to reduce the size of the dictionary without sacri cing classi cation performance. the reduced dictionary enables each asn node to complete the classi cation in real time on its own. nodes in asn are only required to transmit classi cation results and wireless transmission requirements are signi cantly reduced. although each node can perform classi cation on its own, the network has two important roles to play. first, a network of acoustic sensors is important to increase the size of sensing coverage area. second, a network is important for asn re tasking, eg, a new dictionary can be transferred to the asn nodes to enable them to classify new animal species. the classi cation problem in asns di ers from that in many other domains, such as image recognition, in that the test samples in asns may include simultaneous sound from multiple sources, eg, an asn node may pick up the sound of trains, planes and birds at the same time. this requires multi label classi cation, which is a variant of the classi cation problem where multiple target labels must be assigned to each test instance. we show that our proposed sac classi cation framework is able to give a uni ed treatment of the single label and multi label classi cation problems. we adopt the sac framework for acoustic classi cation. the key advantage of the framework is that it does not require feature selection. the sac framework does not appear to have been applied to acoustic classi cation before. we propose a novel method to signi cantly reduce the dimension of the dictionary formed by the sac method in order to enable real time classi cation on resource constrained asn platforms. we propose a novel multi label classi cation algorithm for the sac method. queuing theory shows that the size of queue will not help when arrival rates exceed departure rates. we conduct extensive simulations, using two real life animal vocalization datasets with the sound from frog species and cricket species respectively, to demonstrate the classi cation accuracy and robustness to environmental noise of the proposed sac framework. furthermore, we compare our proposed sac method against two standard classi ers, svm and knn, and show that sac outperforms svm and knn for a wide range of signal to noise ratios. moreover, we compare the multi label classi cation accuracy of sac against a standard classi er ml knn and show that sac gives better performance. we explore the system design spaces of sac and conduct experiments on an outdoor asn testbed for classifying bird calls. we show that our dictionary reduction method enables real time classi cation, and the classi cation accuracy of sac is signi cantly higher than those of svm and knn, which makes sac a good candidate for the remote asns deployed in harsh environment. the rest of this paper is organized as follows. section # presents the background on the sac framework proposed in. we then present the details of our proposed sac framework for asns in section #. evaluation results are given in section # and section #. finally, we conclude the paper in section #. our contributions in this paper are as follows. we consider the problem of monitoring soil moisture evolution using a wireless network of in situ underground sensors. to reduce cost and prolong lifetime, it is highly desirable to rely on fewer measurements and estimate with higher accuracy the original signal. in this paper we explore results from the compressive sensing literature and examine their applicability to this problem. our main challenge lies in the selection of two matrices, the measurement matrix and a representation basis. the physical constraints of our problem make it highly non trivial to select these matrices, so that the latter can sufficient sparsify the underlying signal while at the same time be sufficiently incoherent with the former, two common pre conditions for cs techniques to work well. we construct a representation basis by exploiting unique features of soil moisture evolution. we show that this basis attains very good tradeoff between its ability to sparsify the signal and its incoherence with measurement matrices that are consistent with our physical constraints. extensive numerical evaluation is performed on both real, high resolution soil moisture data and simulated data, and through comparison with a closed loop scheduling approach. our results demonstrate that our approach is extremely effective in reconstructing the soil moisture process with high accuracy and low sampling rate. cient measurement scheduling and sensing of soil moisture. soil moisture is a critical data type and measurement need in many scienti. for instance, it is used in all land surface models, water and energy balance models, weather prediction models, general circulation models, and ecosystem process simulation models. it is also a key measurement need in precision farming and agricultural drought monitoring. soil moisture data has traditionally been collected using remote sensing techniques like radars and radiometers onboard satellites. remote sensing covers large areas, but produces very coarse grained measurements, on the order of square kilometers. it was not until recently, with the advances in integrated wireless communication, sensing and processing technology, has in situ sensing become a feasible option. in situ moisture sensors can be densely deployed over a region of interest, at a resolution of one in every few square feet, and thus can produce much ner grained measurements. to collect desired data at a single location, soil moisture sensor probes are typically placed vertically under the ground at di erent depths, up to meters deep, with wires connecting them to a ground actuation and wireless transceiver module, see eg, the soilscape project. this wireless node actuates the moisture probes to take measurements and transfers the collected data wirelessly to a remote central location or base station for processing; an example of such a network is described in more detail in. to gather su cient information on the temporal and spatial variations and characteristics of soil moisture, it is highly desirable to deploy moisture probes at su ciently high density, and to take measurements at su ciently high frequency. a competing objective is to have the network function in a unmanned fashion for as long as possible, since such networks are typically deployed in an open. eld without immediate access to power or human intervention. this requires us to similar and alternative instrumentations have been used in other studies such as the suelo project, which targets the monitoring of soil which includes but is not speci cally designed for moisture data collection. reduce the working times of the wireless nodes to conserve energy, even when renewable sources are used. for a single wireless node, these competing interests imply that we need to make judicious decisions in measurement scheduling, ie, when is the best time to take a measurement, so as to minimize the total amount of time the node needs to be active in actuating the moisture probes and in data transmission, while still satisfying the monitoring objective, ie, achieving a desired level of accuracy in the estimated soil moisture evolution using the measurement data collected. in this paper we examine how compressive sensing and sparse sampling theory may be used to achieve these goals. note that such measurement scheduling in general runs parallel to other energy. cient methods one may wish to adopt, including mac and routing. it can also be jointly designed with a nodesleep schedules. this problem belongs to the larger class of sensor scheduling problems. the rst is a closed loop approach that makes a measurement decision using past observations and decisions. this typically requires the knowledge of prior statistics of the underlying random process to be monitored, gained either through assumption or training, and is also sometimes referred to as the bayesian approach; examples include, with focusing speci cally on monitoring soil moisture. the second is an open loop approach whereby measurement decisions are made independent of past observations and decisions. compressive sensing based measurement falls under this category. recent advances in compressive sensing theory allow one to represent compressible sparse signals with signi cantly fewer samples than required by the nyquist sampling theorem. it is therefore particularly attractive in a resource constrained setting like ours. this technique has been used in data compression, channel coding, analog signal sensing, routing and data collection, with varying degrees of success. applied to our context, the idea would be to sample the soil moisture in time in some fashion and use compressive sensing techniques to reconstruct or recover the entire process. there are two major challenges in applying cs techniques to our problem context. it is not immediately clear how to nd a good representation basis under which the soil moisture process may be sparsely represented. there is no systematic way of selecting such a matrix; it is usually done through trials and experience. under the cs framework the measurement scheduling is speci ed by a measurement matrix, which is often required to be dense, ie, each measurement corresponds to a linear combination of multiple samples. however, in our problem the physical nature of the monitoring device is such that each measurement corresponds to one and only one sample of the underlying physical process. this makes our measurement matrix extremely sparse, a feature that often does not bode well for its success, see eg, an additional consequence of a sparse measurement matrixis that it becomes hard to make it su ciently incoherent from, a typical condition required for the success of cs techniques. we show in subsequent sections how these challenges can be addressed. our main results and contributions are summarized as follows. we identify a representation basis, under which the soil moisture process can be nearly sparsely represented. this matrix is shown to work extremely well with a number of measurement matrices that are consistent with our application context, including those induced by random and uniform scheduling methods. we further compare this approach to two non cs based methods, a closed loop approach and an interpolation based approach, to demonstrate its performance. in particular, the comparison with the closed loop approach sheds light on the inherent limit of the latter. all our methods are tested using two sets of data: a real soil moisture data set collected from a botanical garden, and a simulated data set calibrated using data collected from a farm. even though our evaluation is based on two speci. soil moisture data sets, the methodology presented in this paper is more generally applicable. firstly, this method works well on soil moisture data from other soil types beyond the two data sets used in the study. this is because our method exploits the dynamics driven by rainfall events, which is common across all soil types. secondly, the combination of representation basis we proposed and the recovery algorithm used can potentially work well with other signal types that are relatively smooth in nature as we note later in section #. this however must be borne out by further experiments which is out of the scope of the current paper but may be pursued in future studies. finally, we believe the general methodology followed in this paper, ie, the selection of a sampling method, a representation basis and a recovery algorithm, as well as verifying the sparsity and incoherence, is applicable to a broad range of similar studies that may wish to employ compressive sensing techniques. selections of these elements may vary from application to application, and is typically done through experience and trial and error, this study nevertheless represents as systematic as possible a scienti. method that may be used by other studies. the remainder of this paper is organized as follows. in section # we describe the problem as well as the data sets we use for our study. section # gives brief background information on related cs literature. in section # we discuss the design of the two matrices in order to apply cs technique to our measurement scheduling problem. numerical results are presented in section #, with comparison to two non cs approaches discussed in section #. radio frequency based device free passive localization techniques have shown great potentials in localizing individual human subjects, without requiring them to carry any radio devices. in this study, we extend the dfp technique to count and localize multiple subjects in indoor environments. to address the impact of multipath on indoor radio signals, we adopt a fingerprinting based approach to infer subject locations from observed signal strengths through profiling the environment. when multiple subjects are present, our objective is to use the profiling data collected by a single subject to count and localize multiple subjects without any extra effort. in order to address the non linearity of the impact of multiple subjects, we propose a successive cancellation based algorithm to iteratively determine the number of subjects. we model indoor human trajectories as a state transition process, exploit indoor human mobility constraints and integrate all information into a conditional random field to simultaneously localize multiple subjects. as a result, we call the proposed algorithm scpl sequential counting, parallel localizing. we test scpl with two different indoor settings, one with size and the other. in each setting, we have four different subjects, walking around in the deployed areas, sometimes with overlapping trajectories. through extensive experimental results, we show that scpl can count the present subjects with counting percentage when their trajectories are not completely overlapping. our localization algorithms are also highly accurate, with an average localization error distance of. ambient intelligence envisions that future smart environments will be sensitive and responsive to the presence of people, thereby enhancing everyday life. potential applications include eldercare, rescue operations, security enforcement, building occupancy statistics, etc. the key to enable these ubiquitous applications is the ability to localize various subjects and objects in the environment of interest. device free passive localization has been proposed as a way of detecting and tracking subjects without the need to carry any tags or devices. it has the additional advantage of being unobtrusive while offering good privacy protection. over the past decades, researchers have studied ways of tracking device free human subjects using different techniques such as camera, capacitance, pressure, infrared and ultra sonic. however, they all suffer from serious limitations such as occlusion, high deployment cost or short range. radio frequency based techniques have the advantages of long range, low cost, and the ability to work through non conducting walls and obstacles several rf based dfp localization techniques have been proposed in, and these approaches observe how people disturb the pattern of radio waves in an indoor space and derive their positions accordingly. to do so, they collect training data to pro le the deployed area, and form mathematical models to relate observed signal strength values to locations. dfp algorithms can be broadly categorized into two groups: location based, and link based. location based dfp schemes collect a radio map with the subject present in various predetermined locations, and then map the test location to one of these trained locations based upon observed radio signals, which is also known as ngerprinting, as studied in. link based dfp schemes, however, capture the statistical relationship between the received signal strength of a radio link and whether the subject is on the line of sight of the radio link, and consequently determine the subjectlocation using geometric approaches. recognizing that merely tracking an individual might not be suf cient for typical indoor scenarios, researchers have been pushing a great amount of effort towards scaling to multiple device free subjects, such as in. they observe the change of rss mean or variance and propose different tracking algorithms. the common thing missing is that the number of subjects is known, which is a strong assumption. in addition, in cluttered indoor environments, subjects can cause collective nonlinear fading effects, which might signi cantly degrade the tracking performance and is not explicitly treated in the work above. on the other hand, location based schemes can be straightforward but prohibitive due to the exponential increase in the training overhead if we need to pro le the system with different combinations of these subjects. in this study, we propose and evaluate an ef cient dfp scheme for tracking multiple subjects using the training data collected by a single subject to avoid expensive training overhead. in the rst phase, we count how many subjects are present using successive cancellation in an iterative fashion. in each iteration, we detect whether the room is empty. if it is not empty, we identify the location for one subject, and then subtract her impact on the rss values from the collective impact measured in the experiment. care must be taken when subtracting a subjectimpact as the change in the rss values caused by multiple subjects at the same time is smaller than the sum of rss changes from each individual subject. in order to compensate for this, we need to multiply a coef cient to a subjectimpact and then perform subtraction. to the subjectlocation as well as the link under consideration. in the second phase, we localize the subjects after their number is known. we partition the deployment area into cells and represent a subjectlocation using its cell number. we formulate the localization problem as a conditional random eld by modeling indoor human trajectories as a state transition process and considering mobility constraints such as walls. we then identify the cells occupied by these subjects simultaneously. since our counting process is sequential and our localization process is parallel, we call our algorithm scpl. we have tested scpl in two indoor settings. the rst setting is an of ce environment consisting of cubicles and narrow aisles, which is partitioned into cells. we used the transmitters and receivers that were deployed for some earlier projects. the second setting is an open oor indoor environment, which is partitioned into cells and deployed with transmitters and receivers. in the training phase, we measured the rss values using a single subject. in the testing phase, we had four subjects with different heights, weights and gender, and designed four different real life of ce scenarios. these scenarios all had periods of time when multiple subjects walked side by side and thus had overlapping trajectories. we can count the number of subjects accurately, with a counting percentage when the subjects were not walking side by side, and a counting percentage when they were. our localization results have good accuracies, with a average error distance of considering all the scenarios. we nd that it is bene cial to consider indoor human movement constraints according to the oor map when localizing moving subjects and demonstrate improvement on average compared with no oor map information provided. the rest of the paper is organized as follows. in section #, we discuss the applications that bene. from passive localization as well as our solution framework. our solution consists of two phases, counting the number of subjects and localiz ing the subjects. then we describe our experimental setup in section # and our detailed results in section #. we dis cuss the limitation and future direction of our work in section # and review the related work in section #. finally, we provide the concluding remarks in section #. radio frequency based device free passive localization has been proposed as an alternative to indoor localization because it does not require subjects to wear a radio device. this technique observes how people disturb the pattern of radio waves in an indoor space and derives their positions accordingly. the well known multipath effect makes this problem very challenging, because in a complex environment it is impractical to have enough knowledge to be able to accurately model the effects of a subject on the surrounding radio links. in addition, even minor changes in the environment over time change radio propagation sufficiently to invalidate the datasets needed by simple fingerprint based methods. in this paper, we develop a fingerprinting based method using probabilistic classification approaches based on discriminant analysis. we also devise ways to mitigate the error caused by multipath effect in data collection, further boosting the classification likelihood. we validate our method in a one bedroom apartment that has transmitters, receivers, and a total of cells that can be occupied. we show that our method can correctly estimate the occupied cell with a likelihood of. further, we show that the accuracy remains high, even when we significantly reduce the training overhead, consider fewer radio devices, or conduct a test one month later after the training. we also show that our method can be used to track a person in motion and to localize multiple people with high accuracies. finally, we deploy our method in a completely different commercial environment with two times the area achieving a cell estimation accuracy of as an evidence of applicability to multiple environments. device free passive localization techniques can localize human subjects without wearing a radio tag. being convenient and private, dfp can find many applications in ubiquitous pervasive computing. unfortunately, dfp techniques need frequent manual recalibration of the radio signal values, which can be cumbersome and costly. we present sencam, a sensor camera collaboration solution that conducts automatic recalibration by leveraging existing surveillance camera. when the camera detects a subject, it can periodically trigger recalibration and update the radio signal data accordingly. this technique requires camera access occasionally each month, minimizing computational costs and reducing privacy concerns when compared to localization techniques solely based on cameras. through experiments in an open indoor space, we show that this scheme can retain good localization results while avoiding manual recalibration. the spatial features of emitted wireless signals are the basis of location distinction and determination for wireless indoor localization. available in mainstream wireless signal measurements, the received signal strength indicator has been adopted in vast indoor localization systems. however, it suffers from dramatic performance degradation in complex situations due to multipath fading and temporal dynamics. break through techniques resort to finer grained wireless channel measurement than rssi. different from rssi, the phy layer power feature, channel response, is able to discriminate multipath characteristics, and thus holds the potential for the convergence of accurate and pervasive indoor localization. channel state information has attracted many research efforts and some pioneer works have demonstrated submeter or even centimeter level accuracy. in this article, we survey this new trend of channel response in localization. the differences between csi and rssi are highlighted with respect to network layering, time resolution, frequency resolution, stability, and accessibility. furthermore, we investigate a large body of recent works and classify them overall into three categories according to how to use csi. for each category, we emphasize the basic principles and address future directions of research in this new and largely open area. wireless indoor localization spawns numerous location based applications in a wide range of living, production, commence, and public services. this ourish of mobile and pervasive computing has sharpened the urge for accurate, robust, and off the shelf indoor localization schemes. compared with outdoor positioning, indoor localization is more challenging, since gps signals are rarely accessible, yet room level or even submeter precision is often required. due to the ubiquitous deployment of wireless networks and devices, the past two decades have witnessed extensive wireless indoor localization techniques, including acoustic signals, ultrasound, fm, infrared this work is supported in part by the nsfc under grant, the nsfc major program under grant, and the nsfc distinguished young scholars program under grant. liu, school of software and tnlist, tsinghua university, beijing, china; zhou, department of computer science engineering, hong kong university of science technology, hong kong. permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies show this notice on the rst page or initial screen of a display along with the full citation. copyrights for components of this work owned by others than acm must be honored. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers, to redistribute to lists, or to use any component of this work in other works requires prior speci. permissions may be requested from publications dept, acm, inc, penn plaza, suite, new york, ny year# usa, fax, or permissions acm org. year# acm year# art doi: http: dx doi org year#. yang et al, rfid, bluetooth, cellular, zigbee, wifi, uwb, etc. in essence, the spatial features of emitted wireless signals lay the basis of location distinction and determination. available in mainstream wireless signal measurements, the received signal strength indicator characterizes the attenuation of radio signals during propagation and has been adopted in a large body of indoor localization systems. although rssi can achieve meter level localization accuracy in simple environments, it suffers from dramatic performance degradation in complex situations due to multipath fading and temporal dynamics. most of the present reliable rssi based positioning systems still stay at room level accuracy, answering the location query like which room people or assets are in. break through techniques resort to ner grained wireless channel measurement than rssi. different from rssi as the mac layer superimposition of multipath signals with fast changing phases, the phy layer power feature, channel response, is able to discriminate multipath characteristics. in a conceptual sense, channel response is to rssi what a rainbow is to a sunbeam, where components of different wavelengths are separated. previously, channel response was measured by professional equipment, obstructing its wide usability. however, the popularity of wifi and orthogonal frequency division multiplexing technology has changed the landscape. in an standards, channel response can be partially extracted from off the shelf ofdm receivers in the format of channel state information, which reveals a set of channel measurements depicting the amplitudes and phases of every subcarrier. some pioneer works based on csi have demonstrated submeterlevel accuracy for location determination with only wifi compatible network interface cards. such results de nitely advance wireless indoor localization to a broader range of applications. as the phy layer counterpart of rssi, csi holds potential for the convergence of accurate and pervasive indoor localization and has attracted numerous recent research efforts. in this article, we surveyed this new trend of channel response in localization. the differences between csi and rssi are highlighted with respect to network layering, time resolution, frequency resolution, stability, and accessibility. we also investigated a large body of recent works and classi ed them overall into three categories according to how csi is used: extracting the radio power of individual multipath components as ranging metric or radio ngerprint; estimating time or angle information with dedicated signal sources; analyzing the in uence of human presence and mobility on csi to implement device free passive human detection and localization. for each category, we emphasize the principles and address future avenues in this new and largely open area of location aware technologies. we conclude with the development and opportunity of channel response measurement in nowadays standards. accurate activity recognition enables the development of a variety of ubiquitous computing applications, such as context aware systems, lifelogging, and personal health systems. wearable sensing technologies can be used to gather data for activity recognition without requiring sensors to be installed in the infrastructure. however, the user may need to wear multiple sensors for accurate recognition of a larger number of different activities. we developed a wearable acoustic sensor, called bodyscope, to record the sounds produced in the user throat area and classify them into user activities, such as eating, drinking, speaking, laughing, and coughing. themeasure of the support vector machine classification of activities using only our bodyscope sensor was. we also conducted a small scale in the wild study, and found that bodyscope was able to identify four activities at accuracy. we present two techniques for intrusion detection and a technique for tracking a single intruder. typical location determination systems require the presence of a physical device that is attached to the person that is being tracked. in addition, they usually require the tracked device to participate actively in the localization process. in this paper, we introduce the concept of device free passive localization. a dfp system is envisioned to be able to detect, track, and identify entities that do not carry any device, nor participate actively in the localization process. the system works by monitoring and processing changes in the received physical signals at one or more monitoring points to detect changes in the environment. applications for dfp systems include intrusion detection and tracking, protecting outdoor assets, such as pipelines, railroad tracks, and perimeters. we describe the dfp system architecture and the challenges that need to be addressed to materialize a dfp system. we show the feasibility of the system by describing algorithms for implementing different functionalities of a dfp system that works with nominal wifi equipment. our results show that the system can achieve very high probability of detection and tracking with very few false positives. we also identify different research directions for addressing the challenges of realizing a dfp system. many location determination technologies have been proposed over the years, including: the gps, infrared, ultrasonic, and radio frequency. all these technologies share the requirement for a tracked object to carry a device to be tracked. in addition many of these technologies require the device being tracked to actively participate in the localization process by running part of the localization algorithm. this allows the system to provide the user with its location and other services related to the estimated location. in this paper, we introduce the concept of device free passive localization, in which the tracked entity need neither carry devices nor participate actively in the localization algorithm. the idea is to use installed wireless data networks to detect changes in the environment and track the location of entities passively and without requiring any devices to be attached to these entities. the dfp concept relies on the fact that rf signals are. ected by changes in the environment, especially for the frequency ranges of the common wireless data networks that are currently deployed, such as wifi, or envisioned, such as wimax. by placing monitoring stations that continuously record physical quantities, such as signal strength or time of ight, dfp can analyze these signals to detect the changes in the environment and correlate them with entities and their locations. figure # gives an overview of a dfp systemcomponents. the dfp system we envision consists of signal transmitters, for example access points and stations used in traditional wifi deployment, monitoring points, for example standard wireless sni ers, along with an application server for processing and initiating actions as needed. figure # shows an example of the measured changes of the environment due to the movement of a person. the time of di erent events is indicated by through. dfp functions include detecting the presence or absence of entities, tracking entities, and identifying entities. dfp can be useful in many practical applications including: intrusion detection and tracking for home and. ce applications, which could enhance the safety of law enforcement personnel, and low cost long range asset protection, eg, border protection or protecting railroad tracks, thereby increasing the value of data networks. in addition, dfp can be used figure #: an example of the di erent components of a dfp system. to enhance traditional security systems, such as motion detection and video surveillance by providing non line of sight detection and lower deployment cost. although the concept of dfp looks promising for a number of applications, there are a number of challenges that need to be addressed, these challenges include: handling the noisy physical signal samples to obtain consistent events recognition and tracking, tracking an entity location, and identifying an entity. in this context, we make three contributions is this paper: we de ne the concept of device free passive localization. in particular, we seek to nd answers to two main questions: by monitoring a physical quantity at one or more locations in an area of interest, where a wireless network is deployed, can we reliably detect changes in the environment and when we detect changes, can we quantify them for example, can we determine the number of objects that caused the changes and their location we present algorithms that can be used for di erent functions of dfp. we identify and discuss several research challenges that exist in realizing both the algorithms and infrastructure support. the rest of the paper is organized as follows: section # discusses related work. section # introduces the dfp concept and identi es the di erent subfunctions of a dfp system. section # describes a number of algorithms that address the feasibility of dfp. section # identi es several challenges in realizing dfp in actual environments and nally section # summarizes the paper. year# year# year# year# year# time figure #: an example of changes in the environ ment due to the movement of a person reported for four di erent transmitter receiver pairs. thetimeof di erent events, such as movement of a person, is indicated by through. network radio frequency environment sensing systems pinpoint and track people in buildings using changes in the signal strength measurements made by a wireless sensor network. it has been shown that such systems can locate people who do not participate in the system by wearing any radio device, even through walls, because of the changes that moving people cause to the static wireless sensor network. however, many such systems cannot locate stationary people. we present and evaluate a system which can locate stationary or moving people, without calibration, by using kernel distance to quantify the difference between two histograms of signal strength measurements. from five experiments, we show that our kernel distance based radio tomographic localization system performs better than the state of the art nres systems in different non line of sight environments. localization of people using wireless sensor networks has signi cant bene ts in elder care, security, and smart facility applications. standard radio localization systems locate a transmitter tag, or allow a receiver to estimate its position. for these mentioned applications, it is critical to be able to locate all people, regardless of whether they carry a radio device. in this paper, we explore permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro. or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page. to copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci. network rf environment sensing, that is, using a static wireless sensor network to create an image map of the people and objects and thus locate them in an area of interest based on the changes they cause in the radio frequency environment. an extensive review of reported nres research can be found in. nres is also called devicefree localization, passive localization, or sensorless sensing. unlike infrared or thermal, rf penetrates non metal walls, and thus nres is useful for emergency applications. for example, in a hostage situation, police could deploy wireless devices outside of the building and learn in real time where people are located in the building, information that may save live. nres systems can also be used in emergency situations to help rescuers like re ghters locate victims. rf based imaging and localization for emergency applications has been dominated by ultra wideband radar systems. companies like camero have developed sophisticated phased array radar systems that are capable of penetrating walls. however, these uwb systems are expensive and are limited to military use only today. an emerging nres technique is to monitor the received signal strength on links in a deployed static network and to use the changes in rss to infer the location of the people in the deployment area. as opposed to multistatic uwb radar or mimo radar, rss based nres requires no expensive and sophisticated hardware, and thus can be implemented with standard wireless networks and devices. we focus on such rss based systems in this paper. although di erent nres systems have been reported and tested, existing methods fail in particular situations. a common method is to use the change in mean in rss on a link to indicate the shadowing from a person obstructing the link. shadowing based radio tomographic imaging uses changes in link rss mean values to estimate the shadowing loss eld in the area of the wireless sensor network. shadowing based rti works well in line of sight environments. in cluttered and non los areas, the assumption that rss will decrease when a person is on the line between transmitter and receiver fails. on a non los link, the rss may increase, decrease, or both, while a person is located on the link line, thus shadowing based rti fails in non los environments. variance based nres methods use the variance of rss measurements to locate human motion. these methods perform well even in non los environments because a moving person changes the rss of links as she crosses through them, increasing the rss variance, even when the change in mean of rss is close to zero. however, a stationary person does not change the rss variance, thus variance based methods cannot locate her. one contribution of this work is to use kernel distance to quantify the change in rss distribution caused by a person, rather than the change in mean or variance. using kernel distance allows us to locate a person who is stationary or moving, and who is in an los environment or non los environment. in short, mean and variance are just two aspects of a random variable; a good metric like kernel distance quanti es the changes in mean, variance and other distribution features, in one metric. in this paper, we explore di erent histogram di erence metrics including the kullback leibler divergence and the kernel distance, and nd that the kernel distance performs better than other metrics in nres. a demonstration abstract has presented the idea of using a di erence between two histograms as a method for rti, however no algorithms, analysis, or validation was presented. in general, kernel distance based nres methods require a single empty room calibration, similar to shadowing based rti methods. however, a second main contribution of this work, we show that for our proposed nres system, an empty room calibration can be replaced with a long term histogram which is calculated during operation, regardless of the presence or absence of people. by enabling online calibration, we allow the nres system to operate without any empty room calibration, and thus be used for emergency applications in which operators do not know a priori whether an area is empty or not. we show that simple ltering of online rss measurements allows one to keep a long term histogram in memory without signi cant computational complexity. this long term histogram is close enough to the histogram which would have been measured in an emptyroom calibration to perform as well as with empty room calibration. in fact, in situations in which the environment has changed since the empty room calibration, the long term histogram is closer to a true empty room measurement, and nres performs better with it than with the. to summarize, the contribution of this paper is to provide a complete framework for rss based environmental inference, which enables localization of both moving and stationary people in both los and non los environments, and which uses online calibration so that the system does not rely on empty room. we explore this framework using reported measurement sets and new measurement sets we collected for this purpose. we evaluate imaging, locating and tracking using our framework. the results show that some links rss measurements do not change signi cantly while a person crosses the link line, so using any single link for nres is unreliable. however, in annode wireless sensor network, there is redundancy fromr thelinks in the network, and one can reliably locate people in the environment. we formulate a new nres method that estimates a map of human presence from kernel distances in the network, which we call kernel distance based radio tomographic imaging. then a personlocation is estimated to be the coordinate of the pixel with the maximum image value. we then test tracking a single person in the area using a kalman lter. experimental results show that krti can locate a moving person more accurately than vrti and subvrt. for localization of a stationary person, krti also outperforms a sequential monte carlo method both in localization accuracy and computational. note that if a person stays still at a location for a long time such as several minutes, our online calibration would gradually treat the person as part of the environment, and thus the person would disappear from our krti images. the rest of the paper is organized as follows. section # rst introduces two types of rss histograms and de nes two histogram di erence metrics, then describes how we use these metrics to image, locate and track a person in a wireless sensor network. section # describes experiments used in this paper, and section # shows the imaging, localization and tracking results.