wireless platform and channel state information we use a platform called wireless ad hoc system for positioning for our experiments. the wasp nodes are originally designed for high resolution localisation and use a much wider bandwidth than many. in fact, the physical layer of wasp is realised by using commercial. at the ghz band, the wasp nodes use sub carriers. each of these sub carriers has a di erent centre frequency. the complex number captures both relative change in signal amplitude and phase shift. since we will only be using the amplitude of csi for classi cation and in order to keep the language simple, we assume that csi is the real vector. sparse representation classi cation sparse representation classi cation is rst proposed in for face recognition. it has subsequently been applied to other areas, such as acoustic classi cation and visual tracking. a key feature of src is its use of minimisation to make the classi cation robust to noise. we give a brief description of src here, the details can be found in. we assume that the classi cation problem hasclasses. classis characterised by the sub dictionary di where dij are the ni feature vectors derived from training data. for classi cation, thesub dictionaries are concatenated to form a dictionary. ideally, a test sampleshould sit in a subspace spanned by the dictionary, ie, there exists a coe cient vectorsuch thatdx. instead, the src method solves for the coe cient vectorusing the following optimisation problem: arg min lxl subject to ly dxl, whereis the noise level. note that instead of requiring thatdx, the constraint requires only that the vectorsand dx are su ciently close to each other. the estimated coe cient vectoris used for the classi cation algorithm. let xi denote the ni dimension sub vector inthat corresponds to the subdictionary di. we calculate the residual riy dxl for class. the class that gives the minimum residual is returned as the classi cation result. this provides us an opportunity to build a training set from the csi measurements rather than extracting feature from them. moreover, src is known to be robust to noise. as our work is to study the performance of activity recognition when rfi is present, we investigate how to explore src to boost snr for improving recognition performance. wasp uses orthogonal frequency division multiplexing at the physical layer and time division multiple access at the media access control layer. wasp can operate in both ghz and ghz industrial, scienti. and medical bands, using a bandwidth of, respectively, mhz and mhz. this means the received sub carriers at two frequencies can experience di erent amount of phase shifts, giving di erent frequency response. for a sub carrier with centre frequency fi, the complex channel response is related to the transmitted symbol and received symbol byt. let, denote the centre frequencies of the sub carriers that wasp nodes use. more details about csi can be found in. however, due to noise, such ancannot be found or is perturbed.