this section reviews existing poi recommendation techniques on how they employ the geographical, social, categorical, and popularity information. based on the fact that the geographical proximity signi cantly. ects the check in behaviors of users on the pois, the geographical information has been intensively used in poi recommendations. one way is to simply consider the current locations of users to lter out the pois that are far from the users. another way is to apply the geographical latent factor or topic models to derive latent features of regions or pois. the more sophisticated way is to estimate the geographical correlations of check in pois as a common distance distribution for all users, eg, a multi center gaussian distribution, a power law distribution, or a personalized nonparametric distribution for each user. in particular, the recent works employed the kernel density estimation method with the xed bandwidth to model the geographical check in distribution of pois for each user over the latitude and longitude coordinates. further, in this paper we develop an adaptive kernel estimation method to enhance the ability of the obtained check in distributions to predict the relevance score between a user and an unvisited poi. social links between users have also been widely utilized to improve the quality of location based recommender systems, since the social friends are more likely to share common interests on pois than strangers. for example, some literatures seamlessly integrated the similarities of users into the user based collaborative ltering techniques, while others employed the user similarities as the regularization terms or weights of latent factor models. in this paper, we contrive a new method to exploit the social correlations between users by aggregating the checkin frequency or rating of friends to pois and transforming them into relevance scores, based on the estimated social check in frequency or rating distribution from the historical check in data of all users. the categories of pois visited by a user implicitly indicate the activities of the user in the pois. thus, the category information of pois is useful for modeling the speci. however, there are only a few studies that utilize the category information for poi recommendations. rahimi and wang simply identi ed the preference of a user to a poi with the bias of the user to the category of the poi. bao et al calculated the category biases of users to compute the similarity of the users for the user based collaborative ltering method. besides the category biases of users, ying et al also derived the category weights of pois from the tags annotated on the pois and then estimated the relevance scores between users and pois based on the inner product of the category biases and weights. liu et al clustered pois into groups based on their categories, built a user category transition matrix instead of user poi check in matrix from the historical check in data of users, and applied the matrix factorization technique to discover the next topcategories that a user would like to check in. zhao et al clustered users into communities and represented each community as a weighted category vector, in which each dimension is the check in counts of a particular poi category by users in the community; to apply the user based collaborative ltering method, they further computed the similarity of users according to the category vectors of the communities of the users. hu et al leveraged the matrix factorization technique to associate each category with a latent vector and deuced the relevance score of a user to a poi based on the latent vectors of the categories of the poi. for example, a restaurant receiving a lot of visits from customers indicates that the restaurant provides high quality foods for its customers. thus, the popularity of pois is also helpful for poi recommendations. most existing works regard the popularity of a poi as the universal prior preference of users to the poi. speci cally, the study employed the prior preference of users to unvisited pois as the weight of the edges between the users and pois in the complete bipartite graph, while other studies utilize the prior preference to adjust the posterior preference that are derived from the geographical information. ect of the category and popularity of pois and may not take full advantage of them for poi recommendations. in this paper, we devise a new method to combine the category bias of a user and the popularity of a poi into a relevance score between the user and poi so as to personalize the. ect of the popularity of the poi on the user.