for example, there has been work on using session context, such as the previous few searches or result clicks, to personalize search results and improve retrieval performance. teevan et al introduced a framework to identify the potential for personalization for di erent queries. in particular, the implicit measure click entropy was highly correlated with explicit judgments of relevance by individuals. in contrast, our approach uses a higher level representation. they propose a probabilistic approach that is similar in spirit to the rst model that we present in section #. our approach also di ers from these earlier works in that we propose using a background model, explicitly taking into consideration the relative likelihood that this user, compared to a generic user, has a particular search intent. a notable exception is zhai et al, who studied the incorporation of novelty into search results. there is a growing interest in the information retrieval and machine learning communities in moving beyond contextfree search experiences, and toward examining how knowledge of a searcherinterests and search context can be used to improve various aspects of search. short term session pro les have also been used for other tasks such as predicting future interests, query categorization, query suggestion, and url recommendation. we focus on personalizing using user pro les constructed from logs comprising long term interaction behaviors, potentially providing a richer view of searcher interests over time. another line of prior research uses long term histories to directly improve retrieval. teevan et al constructed user pro les from indexed desktop documents and showed that this information could be used to re rank search results and improve relevance for individuals. matthijs and radlinski constructed user pro les using users browsing history, and evaluated their approach using an interleaving methodology. rather than using all of the previous search history, tan et al focused only on the most relevant prior queries and constructed language models for this task. all of these approaches to personalization use word based pro les, and ranking is done by re weighting terms using an existing scoring method such as bm or tf idf. one of the key advantages of such a representation is that it allows us to naturally build on top of the probability of relevance computed by a more complex ranking function, such as that of a commercial search engine. various authors have considered topic based representations for personalization, typically learning a userpro le from either browsing or search history. these papers suggest a variety of heuristic methods for ranking using a userpro le. our approach di ers signi cantly in that we propose a probabilistic framework for personalization, resulting in principled procedures for: estimating the topic that a user is searching for, given the query and user pro le, and computing the personalized ranking by combining what we know about the user with other relevance signals. we show in the large scale evaluation of section # that the background model results in large improvements in ranking accuracy over a personalization approach that does not use the background model.