it is well known that by means of clickthrough data search results can be reranked to signi cantly improve the results. however, clickthrough data sparsity poses a problem, since many queries often have a small number of clicks, which makes them incomplete. indeed, queries often have no clicks at all. however, one major di erence is that we do not include new documents in the document list to be reranked, since this is prone to be noisy when clickthrough data is sparse. there are several learning to rank approaches that incorporate clickthrough data. gao et al apply two smoothing methods to overcome the data sparsity problem, one of which is based on good turing smoothing. this is achieved by smoothing the features of click queries with features of click queries. the other smoothing method is based on query clustering on the clickthrough graph. here, the query document click graph is extended with more queries and documents by following links between them. however, in their experiments on a dataset with less clickthrough data available, gao et al show that the query clustering approach on the clickthrough graph does not help. this method only works well when substantial clickthrough data is available, since the introduction of additional documents in the click graph is likely to be noisy for queries originally not having a click with such documents. one similarity between our work and craswell and szummerrandom walk on the click graph is that we use information from co click queries to estimate parts of the reranking models this is equivalent to following a link between a document and a co click query. this means that we do not go beyond the scope of hop co click queries. another major di erence is that in craswell et alwork the query content is not considered in the reranking process, whereas we also attempt to use information from other related queries for which the subqueries and synonyms of a query have to be analyzed. there has been a lot of previous research that uses information from co click queries for reranking. these queries are what we refer to as similar queries, and they are one possible source of related queries in our reranking models. zhao et al use clickthrough frequencies of subqueries in their reranking approach while calculating the likelihood of a document being retrieved, given a query. synonym queries on the other hand have been explored in the literature in the form of query reformulation, query expansion and query rewriting. for reasons explained in the following section, our empirical evaluation is constrained to use a black box retrieval system, for which we are combining very few features. to the best of our knowledge, although previous approaches have tested their retrieval and reranking algorithms on sparse queries, they have not employed them on sparse queries in a sparse system where the overall clickthrough data available is limited for all queries. indeed, major search engines have the same problemie, they have queries which have rarely been seen before. further, their total count of such queries is almost certainly vastly greater. however, since these queries are a more noticeable part of the search experience for smaller search engines like that of uptodate, this work is more valuable in such a setting.