memory based collaborative ltering techniques, such as user based cf and itembased cf, are exploited for poi recommendation. ye et al adopt linear interpolation to incorporate both the social and geographical in uences into the user based cf framework for poi recommendation. their experimental results show that user based cf outperforms item based cf for poi recommendation, incorporating the geographical in uence into the user based cf model can signi cantly improve the recommendation accuracy, and the social in uence has little impact on the performance. levandoski et al extend item based cf method by considering the travel distance as penalty. memory based cf methods easily su er from the data sparsity problem, since the user user or item item similarities need to be calculated based on common check ins. model based cf techniques are also exploited for poi recommendation. nd that matrix factorization performs worse than user based cf and itembased cf for poi recommendation. in their work, conventional mf method for explicit feedback data is applied to poi recommendation, which thus is not suitable and delivers bad performance. based on the observation that individualcheck in locations are usually around several centers, cheng et al introduce a multi center gaussian model to compute the geographical in uence and then combine it heuristically with mf for poi recommendation. in this approach, mf is performed by tting nonzero check ins only and thus it su ers from the data sparsity issue easily. liu et al propose a geographical probabilistic factor analysis framework, namely gtbnmf, which incorporates geographical in uence and textual in uence based on the bayesian nonnegative matrix factorization. all these factorization methods do not exploit the implicit feedback property of poi recommendation. although assigning large weights can highlight nonzero check ins, directly tting zero checkins may not be very reasonable because zero check ins may be missing values. moreover, because of the limitation of wmf, it is not easy to generalize the method to other types of context information. most of the aforementioned methods for poi recommendation exploit the geographical in uence in making recommendations. however, their approaches of handling the geographical in uence cannot handle other types of context information. time is another important type of context, and time aware poi recommendation aims to recommend pois for a user at a given time. yuan et al propose a method called ute se, which extends the user based cf to incorporate both the temporal and geographical. yuan et al further present a graph based method, called bpp, for time aware poi recommendation, which makes recommendations by preference propagation on a graph constructed from the check in data. in addition, gao et al study the temporal. ranking based learning criteria bayesian personalized ranking is a famous ranking based objective criterion, which can produce promising performance for implicit feedback problems combining with matrix factorization model. bpr learns the ranking models based on pairwise comparison of items such that the area under the roc curves can be maximized. it gives equal weights to each item pair. ordered weighted pairwise classi cation is another recently proposed loss metric for ranking. the method considers ranking as a set of pairwise classi cation problems and emphasizes the classi cations at toppositions by assigning higher weights. owpc has been successfully applied in text retrieval and image annotation. in this paper, we consider the poi recommendation based on the owpc criterion. our proposed method di ers from the existing approaches in two aspects. second, we develop a general factorization method for poi recommendation, which is able to exploit di erent types of context information. however, the bn mf is performed by tting both zero and nonzero check ins, which might not be reasonable because zero check ins may be missing values and should not be tted directly. recently, considering the check ins as implicit feedbacks, lian el al. develop a model, namely geomf, based on weighted matrix factorization, and the geographical in uence is incorporated into wmf. ect on the poi recommendation, but not the time aware poi recommendation. they develop a regularized nonnegative matrix factorization method but they do not consider the geographical in uence. other types of contexts utilized in poi recommendation include category of poi, text description of poi, and currently visited poi.