in this section, we rst introduce the basic position model and then explore its extensions to various existing click models. before delving into the detailed introduction of click models, we describe some relevant concepts when a user submits a search query and the notations used throughout the paper. after fetching search engine result page, one scrutinizes the provided documents, or referred as urls in some work, in a particular order and decides to either click or skip adocument. the widely accepted assumption is that the decision is made according to the user perceived relevance between document and query. in general, the prediction of user click behavior is modeled in a probabilistic setting. it should be noted that serp returns not only the organic search results mentioned above, but also other links like ads and related queries that a user might perform a click. to simplify the problem, such links are out of the scope of this paper. each observation of click contains a vector, where means a click andis the document position. the data setin query logs are partitioned into, the subset that contains all the clicked items where, and its complement. the subset of observations that are not clicked. the index ofdenotes the requirement that the observations need to meet to be in the set. for example, qd, refers to all the observations such that documentat positionfor the given queryis clicked. position model the position model is a broadly accepted basic click model. it incorporates position bias by assuming that a user makes the click decision only after examining the documenttitle and snippet. whether the user examines a document item or not depends on the position of the document. if we let denote the event of click and value the absence of the event, then the probability to click a documentat positiongiven querycanbe expressedas. now let denote the event of examination and value disregard for the document, and the probability of click under examination hypothesis can be formulated as ei, document relevance position bias de ne aqd andp, then aqdi aqdi from the above, the click event follows a simple bernoulli distribution. when the parameter set are set as ones, the model degrades to a baseline model that a click depends solely on the user perceived relevance of the document to a given query. the joint likelihood under our notations is then. this method can also avoid the possible situations when a. cascade model the pure position model copes only with di erent positions that are independent of each other. many extensions were subsequently proposed to take the whole session interactions into consideration. one session here is de ned as all the search results returned for one requested query. more hypotheses were raised to interpret hidden information in a session. a prominent hypothesis is that users tend to examine documents one by one from top of the page. an additional condition that a user stops the session when a document is clicked gives cascade model. under these requirements, a click on the document indicates that: the user has examined all the documents above and regarded them as irrelevant; all the documents below will not be examined and the session is terminated. again, it is quite clear that whether a user submits a click depends on the user perceived document relevance just as in position model. aqdi ci then the probability of click can be computed as aqdi while the position model focuses on depicting position bias as precisely as possible, the cascade hypothesis was proposed to view user search behavior as an action chain. one drawback of the cascade model is that the assumption is so strict that sessions with more than one click are to be discarded. this restriction gives rise to some subsequent extensions, which we review below. user browsing model the hypothesis raised by the user browsing model aims at arriving at a better estimation of position bias by relaxing it from the limitation of constant multipliers. it also overcomes the constraint of cascade model that only oneclick sessions can be handled. the model says that position bias depends not only on current position, but also on the distance to the position of the latest clicked document. if we let aqdi denote the user perceived relevance of documentat positionfor a given query, then ubm can be formally illustrated as follows. aqdi ir the joint likelihood bears a form similar to position model. qd, ir qd, ir, rq, similarly, we can also use expectation maximization algorithm to complete model inference.