research in a number of areas relates to our work here: improv ing search using behavioral data, search personalization, at tribution of search activity to individuals, the construction of interest models, and applications of these models for tasks such as recommending resources or predicting future searcher interests. improving search using behavioral data: behavioral data from search engines has been mined extensively to improve search rele vance. radlinski and joachims proposed the use of query chains comprising connected sequences of queries to learn richer models of relevance that can capitalize on session behavior. moving beyond individual queries, radlinski et al model in tent from queries and clicks for direct consumption by web search engines. similarly, downey et al examined relationships be tween search queries and search goals estimated from the terminal page within the search session. bilenko and white used signals from aggregate post query navigation trails to learn result rankings. search personalization: the personalization of the search experi ence has received significant attention. the po tential for personalization quantifies the improvement in re trieval performance that is attainable via personalization versus the performance that is obtained from trying to meet many searchers needs. long term behavior has been applied to personalize search, focused on previous queries associated with the similar tasks over multiple search sessions. teevan et al showed that personalization improves as more data is available about the current searcher. other signals such as short term activity are also effective personalization signals. backing off from the activity of individual searchers, other signals such as physical location, the search activity of those engaged in similar tasks, or searchers similar along one or more other dimensions have also been shown to be useful for person alization, especially when addressing cold start scenarios where limited data can affect system performance. attribution of search activity: truly personalizing the search ex perience relies on assigning observed search activity to an individ ual. at scale in search settings this is usually performed via an au tomatically assigned unique identifier based on web browser cook ies, or to a toolbar or browser instance. dasgupta et al studied the challenge of connecting different cookies to track the same user over time. this is important since cookie based identifiers are sub ject to cookie churn. similarly, there may also be user variations within the machine identifier. white et al used the same da taset as employed in this study and showed that observing multiple people searching on the same machine is common. they presented models to accurately estimate the number of searchers on a machine and attribute new search activity to specific searchers. the search activity attribution challenge that white et al identified shares characteristics with other related domains such as fraud de tection and signal processing. however, there has been little attention on the application of attribution for personalization. to our knowledge, the only exception is an early study by singla et al, who experimented with attribution methods for personaliza tion, yielding some promising results. since that study used a spe cific attribution method for a specific task, the findings offer limited general insight about the potential utility of abp. we address that shortcoming with the research in this paper. building interest models: to personalize the search experience, systems need to build and apply models that represent searcher in terests. interest models are common in user modeling and recom mendation. models can be constructed based on online activity only, or based on client side data, which can provide more complete in sight into searcher preferences than is available from remote mon itoring alone. interest models can assume a number of forms, including the text of search queries, specific urls or web domains visited in search or browsing, or topical representations. searcher interest models are often stored remotely, although client side storage has been adopted if there is a need to access local data or to address privacy concerns. to reduce noise, personalization methods can target on task activ ity only. one extreme example is revisitation to the same url for the same query. so called personal navigation, is also a powerful signal for search personalization and requires models comprising query url pairs mined from historic data. personali zation methods traditionally use overlap between queries to detect activity on the same task. such on task interest models can be constructed from activity at different timeframes, and there are noteworthy tradeoffs in personalization performance given these timeframes. other factors, such as the click entropy of the query, can also impact personalization performance. recommendation and prediction: once searcher interest models have been constructed, there are different ways in which they can be applied for personalization purposes. the traditional application is to adjust the ranking of search results, either through generating a new result set tailored to the searcher or through re ranking the initial results returned by a search engine. other ap plications of interest models include predicting which search results searchers will click, which display advertisements they will select, or which web pages or topics they will focus on next. for this study, we target the challenge of predicting future interests given historic interest models. the log data used in our study only contained data about queries and clicks. therefore, we could not reliably reconstruct the top ranked search results presented at query time, as has been possible in prior personalization studies, where top retrieved results appeared in the logs used. contributions: we extend prior work in many ways. first, through abp, we focus on personalization at the sub machine level, rather than assuming an exact correspondence between machine and indi vidual, as has traditionally been the case in personalization. second, we perform an oracle study highlighting differences in interest models depending the identifier type associ ated with search activity. this differs from the work of singla et al, where the focus was on applying a particular automatic attrib ution method, limiting the generalizability of derived claims about the effectiveness of abp. third, we show that observed differences between machine and person based models are meaningful, in our case for the task of future interest prediction. fourth, we identify scenarios where abp is most effective. as part of that analysis, we built a classifier to accurately determine when to apply abp for each query, yielding strong gains in personalization performance. model building based on six months of logs. statistic dataset model building evaluation total machines, total searchers, total queries, total clicks, avg. clicks machine number of machines with queries in train test period for number of clicks.