nonetheless, bid phrases remain a mandatory component of the ad de nition. we assume that this is an orthogonal factor to the relevance component, and could be easily incorporated in the model. textual advertis ing on the web a large part of the web advertising market consists of textual ads, the ubiquitous short text messages usually marked as sponsored links. there are two main channels for distributing such ads. all major web search engines support sponsored ads and act simultaneously as a web search engine and an ad search engine. content match places ads on third party web pages. sponsored search is an interplay of three entities. as in traditional advertising, the goal of the advertisers can be broadly de ned as promotion of products or services. the search engine provides real estate for placing ads, and selects ads that are relevant to the userquery. the prevalent pricing model for textual ads is that the advertisers pay for every click on the advertisement. there are also other models, such as payper impression, where the advertiser pays for the number of exposures of an ad, and pay per action, where the advertiser pays only if the ad leads to a sale or similar completed transaction. the amount paid by the advertiser for each sponsored search click is usually determined by an auction process. the advertisers place bids on a search phrase, and their position in the column of ads displayed on the search results page is determined by their bid. thus, each ad is annotated with one or more bid phrases. in addition to the bid phrase, an ad also contains a title usually displayed in bold font, and a creative, which is the few lines of text, usually shorter than characters, displayed on the page. in the model currently used by all the major search engines, bid phrases serve a dual purpose: they explicitly specify queries that the ad should be displayed for and simultaneously put a price tag on a click event. ample, a contractor advertising his services on the internet might be willing to pay a small amount of money when his ads are clicked from general queries such as home remodeling, but higher amounts if the ads are clicked from more focused queries such as hardwood oors or laminate ooring. this approach, called broad match, facilitates more exible ad matching, but is also more error prone, and only some advertisers opt for it. the price in this model depends on the set of ads presented on the results page. several models have been proposed to determine this price, most of them based on generalizations and variants of second price auctions. for simplicity, in this paper we ignore the pricing model and concentrate on nding ads that will maximize the rst term of the product, that is, we search for arg maxp. furthermore, we assume that the probability of a click for a given ad and query is determined by the adrelevance score with respect to the query, thus ignoring the positional. ect of the ad placement on the results page. sponsored search places ads on the result pages of a web search engine, where ads are selected to be relevant to the search query. non transactional web sites rely at least to some extent on contextual advertising revenue. in this paper we focus on sponsored search. however, we believe that additional knowledge based features are also likely to be bene cial for content match, and plan to investigate this direction in future work. usually the activity of the advertisers is organized around campaigns, which are de ned by a set of ads with a particular temporal and thematic goal. users visit the web pages and interact with the ads. in this paper we deal with the ppc model, which is the one most often used in practice. naturally, each ad contains a url to the advertised web page, called the landing page. obviously, these price tags could be di erent for di erent queries. for ex non transactional sites are those that do not sell anything directly. most often, ads are shown for queries that are expressly listed among the bid phrases for the ad, thus resulting in an exact match between the query and the bid phrase. however, it might be di cult for the advertiser to list all the relevant queries ahead of time. therefore, search engines also have the ability to analyze queries and modify them slightly in an attempt to match pre de ned bid phrases. given a query, the revenue from a click can be estimated asr price, whereis the number of ads displayed on the page with search results forand price is the click price of the ad ai at position.