our work follows the classic hypothesis of a two step information ow, where news savvy opinion leaders play the key role of intermediaries between the content produced by mass media and the general public. in fact, our work extends this hypothesis to model how even relatively normal users play the role of information lters for their peers. on the other hand, study of word of mouth propagation showed that this spread is more likely between geographically close friends, hinting at a possible bias effect. our work is complementary as we explore a new dimension: how intermediaries help manage the volume of information by serving as lters and adapting to the interests of the audience. we depart from the purely empirical approach by analyzing the dynamics between bloggers as they compete for user attention. rst version of our work appeared, a recent analysis of twitter suggested that social media can be. cient at giving users information relevant to their interests. ciency is compatible with follower relationships and interests that both derive from the same underlying structure in a kronecker graph, although this argument currently implies that the graph is undirected. in our work the structure is not assumed a priori but naturally emerges from the interaction of various agents of the curation ecosystem. as news moves online, how to best serve the various information needs of communities remains an important issue of public concern. previous works analyzed how to best serve this collective attention, either by analyzing temporal dynamics and treating this as a scheduling problem, by adapting personalization tools, or by enhancing news navigation. a recent and notable exception is the debate on the. they generate to news outlet was shown to come at the expense of customer loyalty, leading to a potential loss of advertising revenue for content publishers. our work is radically di erent as we consider competition between various intermediaries as well. we wish to see if the collective behavior of intermediaries can be harnessed and their incentives aligned to serve every userinterests. orts, with two important di erences: first, the context of content curation is entirely new and it involves two sides. since the rst version of our work was presented, a page workshop paper independently derived the same observation and studied best response dynamics in curation systems. our model di ers in its assumptions about how readers select their intermediaries, which has large consequences on the equilibrium properties of the game. furthermore, in our setting, the existence of a pure strategy equilibrium requires an entirely di erent proof to show the game is a potential game. we are only aware of a few other works analyzing news dissemination with a game theoretic background. previous work assumed news is equally appealing to all users, and showed that local incentives su ce for higher quality news to reach a large audience in a random graph, by a connectivity argument. it also showed that users attempting to avoid spam may be an important limiting factor. in contrast, we are interested in how various blogs emerge to satisfy the information needs of a heterogeneous audience. in, a multi topic model is analyzed to model news aggregators choosing a subset of topics in a sequential game. in contrast, our model allows for a much richer set of posting strategies, in which intermediaries can pick precisely what set of articles to post, across any topics. we assume bloggers compete for user attention through their choice of what to post, and we wish to nd the conditions under which such games admit natural equilibria that are also.