numerous experimental results have indicated that simplistic rangebased models of wireless reception are insuf cient. they gave strong evidence that the basic formula works, and verify the additivity of the sinr model. also, accurate estimates can be obtained via general ray tracing when highly detailed information is available. besides directionality and asymmetry, signal strength is not well predicted by distance. interference patterns are also insuf ciently explained by pairwise relationships, suggesting the need for additive interference models, both experimentally and analytically. the weakness of the known prescriptive models for interference and packet reception has led experimentalists to form models based on measurements. son, krishnamachari and heidemann showed that the sinr formula, using separately measured rss values, is the main factor in predicting prr. they found prr to be dependent on the number of interferers, which was not supported in later studies and attributed to hardware variability or the quality of the cc radios used. reis et al independently proposed a similar approach on a platform. they found substantial variability across nodes, and that similarity across time was suf cient over moderate time scales of minutes to hours, but that prediction accuracy degrades over longer periods. maheshwari, jain and das compared different models of interference using two testbeds with variations in hardware, power level, and indoor outdoor. they concluded that the physical model gives best accuracy, albeit less than perfect. in their followup workshop paper, they focus on the relationship of joint interference to prr. chen and terzis proposed a method for calibrating rssi readings to combine interference measurements from different motes. they found that tmote sky motes consistently report rssi values inaccurately, even reporting non injective relationships. by aligning measurements from different motes, they obtained much better sinr vs. prr relationship, reducing the width of the intermediate range signi cantly. measurement based approaches have also been proposed in the context of, where carrier sense and control packets complicate the picture. recent efforts have focused on reducing the required measurements by deducing interference using, eg, linear algebra or regression. boano et al also studied the impact of external interference on sensor network mac protocols, and identi ed mechanisms to improve their robustness. the engineering literature has introduced various extensions in order to capture reality more faithfully. in the two ray model, which captures re ection off the ground, signal decays in the nearterm as a certain polynomial, but as a higher degree polynomial further away. we note that these models can be captured by mbinr, with. there are also empirical models, such as the okumura and hata models, that take the environment into account. these could also be used to generate a gain matrix. some studies have allowed signal strength to uctuate from the geometric path loss by up to a constant factor. this is of limited help in general, however, since even minor uctuations of the value of a can cause arbitrarily large changes in signal strength. on one hand, they are means to prescribe non geometric components to signal reception, which is useful for simulation studies, but which could be captured more accurately by actual measurements.