in this section we review related work around three main topics: query intent mining, leveraging entity aspects for search, and search task identi cation. intent mining deals with identifying clusters of synonymous or strongly related queries based on intents, which are typically de ned as the need behind a query. an intent is commonly de ned as a set of search queries that together represent a distinct information need relevant to the original search query. methods for identifying intents are typically based on the query itself, results returned by a retrieval algorithm, clicked results, or any other actions by the user. hu et al leverage two kinds of user behavior for identifying query subtopics: one subtopic per search and subtopic clari cation by keyword. they propose a clustering algorithm that can effectively leverage the two phenomena to automatically mine the major subtopics of queries. they represent each subtopic as a cluster containing a number of urls and keywords. cheung and li present an unsupervised method for clustering queries with similar intent and producing patterns consisting of a sequence of semantic concepts or lexical items for each intent. they refer to this step of identifying patterns as intent summarization. they then use the discovered patterns to automatically annotate queries. other related work focuses on extracting attributes from queries, either unsupervised or in the context of entities from a knowledge base. for instance, li et al propose a clustering framework with similarity kernels to identify synonymous query intent templates for a set of canonical templates. they integrate signals from multiple sources of information and tune the weights in an unsupervised manner. li et al on the other hand, solely aim to discover alternative surface forms of attribute values. they propose a compact clustering framework to jointly identify synonyms for a set of attribute values. in a similar vein, pasca and van durme describe a method for extracting relevant attributes or quanti able properties for various classes of objects. yin and shah propose an approach for building a hierarchical taxonomy of generic search intents for a class of named entities. their proposed approach nds phrases representing generic intents from user queries and organize these phrases into a tree. they propose three methods for tree building: maximum spanning tree, hierarchical agglomerative clustering, and pachinko allocation model. these approaches are based on search logs only. moving beyond entity types, lin et al introduce the notion of active objects in which entity bearing queries are paired with actions that can be performed on entities. they pose the problem of nding actions that can be performed on entities as the problem of probabilistic inference in a graphical model that captures how an entity bearing query is generated. for instance, balasubramanian and cucerzan propose a method to generate entity speci. similarly, song et al present a model to summarize a queryresults using distinct aspects. for this they propose composite queries that are used for providing additional information for the original query and its aspects. this works by comparatively mining the search results of different component queries. wu et al mine latent query aspects based on users query reformulation behavior and present a system that computes aspects for any new query. they then use a knowledge base to compute aspects for queries that occur less frequently and to group aspects that are semantically related. finally, spina et al explore the task of identifying aspects of an entity given a stream of microblog posts. they compare different ir techniques and opinion target identi cation methods for automatically identifying aspects. search task identi cation deals with determining the speci. such information enables a search engine to, eg, suggest relevant queries and or results. jones and klinkner formalize the notion of a search goal as an atomic information need which results in one or more queries. they propose a method for the automated segmentation of a users query stream into hierarchical units. lucchese et al also aim to identify user search tasks within query sessions. later they expand user task detection across user sessions, similar to so called task trails and long term search tasks. li et al model the temporal in uence of queries within a search session and then use this temporal in uence across multiple sessions to identify and label search tasks. there exists a large body of work on query recommendation, ie, suggesting follow up queries to a user, either in an ad hoc fashion or in the context of a usersession or task. boldi et al introduces the notion of query ow graph for query suggestion and szpektor et al later expand this model to increase coverage for long tail queries. bonchi et al expand it even further to improve coverage. feild and allan show that us ing contextual information can improve query recommendation, as long as the previous queries in the context involve a similar or related task. hassan awadallah et al capitalizes on this idea and propose grouping together similar queries and then using them for query recommendation for complex search tasks, similar to taskspeci. finally, verma and yilmaz extract common tasks in the context of an entity to improve retrieval through query expansion and query term prediction. they extract terms frequently appearing with an entity and aggregate this type of information to an entity type level to obtain a dictionary of entity tasks. they evaluate their work through query term prediction and query expansion. a terma queryan entitya query segment, ie, a sequence of terms a an entity aspect, consisting of zero or more query seg ments ae the set of entity aspects ford time span our work is different in the following major ways. first, we extract entity aspects from query logs speci cally. second, we weight these aspects and assign their importance with respect to an entity on its own in an ad hoc fashion, ie, without any user, session or query based information. third, we learn their relatedness using semantic and behavioral approaches. finally, we propose an entity aspect based query recommendation algorithm building upon the query ow graph.