our experiments are geared towards establishing a di erent bias, by pairing snippets with swapped urls. mei and church conducted a related study where they showed that the visited web at a particular point in time has low entropy. the bias of user clicks on search engines has been studied before. found user clicks to be good signals for implicit relevance judgments but observed via an eyetracking study that there is considerable position bias. carried out ranking perturbation experiments and proposed a cascade model: users scan results from top to bottom and make click decisions based on relevance. found that users did not blindly trust search engines. al, however, our ndings are at the aggregate level of page domains and explain clicks beyond pure relevance. in, the authors show that users are biased towards attractively formatted snippets. user browsing models for search engine results, both organic and sponsored, have attracted considerable attention in recent years. these models aim to estimate the click through rate of a result, given the resultposition and previous clicks in the user session. the ctr is commonly modeled as the product of the examination probability and the perceived relevance of the result. the models vary in the examination probability and perceived relevance functions, but all agree that these functions depend only on the current state of the results and the current usersession clicks. on the other hand, our work shows that ctr is not only in uenced by relevance and examination but also by domain preference. it is well known that page quality is correlated with its hosting domain. there is related work on domain trust in the context of spam. proposed trustrank pagerank like ranking of domains based on a seed set of trusted reputable sites. it is common practice for search engines to use domain as a feature in ranking. for example, pagerank can be applied to the hyperlink structure on domains to obtain domain rank scores. alternatively, domains that garner many clicks may be boosted higher in the ranking. our work shows that if clicks are used to boost pages in the ranking, that domain bias must rst be discounted. a related line of research is on the bias of search engines on page popularity. cho and roy observed that search engines penalized newly created pages by giving higher ranking to the current popular pages. a number of solutions were proposed including using the change in popularity as a signal of page quality and partial randomization of ranking. although this line of work is related to ours in that we look at the in uence of search engines on users, our focus is different: we aim to understand and model userlong term preference for speci. from search engines to individual sites and characterize search and browsing behavior. unlike previous studies that characterize search behavior at a particular time point, our work emphasizes longitudinal search behavior. our work is di erent in that we look at the visited web over time. we similarly con rm that user visits are predictable, but we also point out that user visits are slow to change. users are consistent about the domains they visit and are less in uenced by changes in the displayed results.