with some abstraction, a batch evaluation metric can be viewed as a function that makes predictions about user effort and gain based on its user interaction model, ie, assumptions about how users operate the system, cf. in both cases, we can interpret the number of documents examined as effort, and the number of relevant documents found as gain. modeling user interaction with retrieved results has become a central topic in recent discussions on evaluation methodology. for example, the examination assumption states that users are less likely to view lower ranked results; and the cascade model assumes users browse a ranked result list from top to bottom, and stop once a relevant result is found. for example, the rank biased precision models the persistence of a user, ie, how likely a user examines a next result when going down a ranked list; the expected reciprocal rank is derived from the cascade model; and chuklin et al proposed to turn click models into evaluation measures. time biased gain takes into account user variability in terms of the time needed to process information, eg, reading summaries. an alternative use of user interaction models is to simulate user search activities, in order to evaluate system performance under various conditions such as what if users dowhich are not likely to be investigated by a user study. for example, smucker and clarke presented amethodtosimulatetime biasedgain. a shared assumption in the studies listed so far is the traditional ranked list search interface. studies that go beyond the traditional single ranked list based user interaction is session based evaluation. moving away from the traditional ranked list search interface, fuhr proposed the interactive probabilistic ranking principle aimed at providing a formal description of user interactions and the corresponding optimization strategy for a system. more concretely, faceted search is a typical example where user interaction models need to go beyond the assumptions of a ranked list interaction model. a key notion shared by these simulation models is utility the trade off between the effort users spend and the bene. these models assume different user goals and how users interact with retrieved results and facets. in terms of user goals, kashyap et al assumed users examine all ltered results in the context of database queries. alternatively, in users were assumed to nd only one relevant result. in terms of user operation with facets, koren et al assumed that users can always recognize the facet that contains relevant document, and select facets in one of the following ways: randomly; facets with least document coverage; the rst facet that contains the target document; or the optimal facets. kong and allan assumed that users sequentially scan facets and skip an entire facet when they nd it irrelevant. our goal is to devise a new evaluation method for systems with a search interface enabling rlr elements. what we need is a user interaction model that is able to characterize not only the traditional examine a result list interactions, but also interactions with rlr elements. first, we model user interactions with rlr elements in a more natural way users scan ltered results without a particular order; and they may and may not recognize a good lter value. second, we do not make explicit assumptions to create categories of users. the variability of users is captured by a probabilistic framework: by varying two model parameters, we are able to simulate a wide range of users. this second property of our model allows us to encompass empirical user interaction models developed for traditional search interfaces, ie, to. the model with real usage data and make predictions of system performance with respect to a particular group of users search tasks. user interaction models are closely related to effectiveness metrics developed for batch evaluation: users invest effort to operate a system in order to gain relevant information. for example, widely used metricsk and ndcgemploy user interaction models of two different types of user search behavior: k assumes users examine all topresults in no particular order, and ndcgassumes users examine topresults from top to bottom and nd lower ranked results of less value. a wide range of stochastic models have been learned from web search engine click logs. common to these models are a few assumptions that have been identi ed as typical user interaction patterns in web search. meanwhile, several effectiveness metrics have been proposed in an effort to integrate more realistic user interaction models. here, in addition to the examination assumption, an extra user decision whether to reformulate their query is modeled. various heuristic user interaction models have been proposed for simulation. we evaluate an rlr system under the same notion of utility as in the above studies in faceted search.